AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Matt Stevens and Julie TurkewitzGood morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)It is one of those stereotypes about Los Angeles that is actually true: Every Angeleno has wasted time in traffic.Anyone looking for evidence need look no further than 2016, when voters chose to tax themselves in hopes of making their commutes a little less painful. The countywide transportation tax, which will raise $120 billion for subways, light rail lines and other transit projects over 40 years, was approved decisively — by almost 70 percent of voters.Investing in public transportation to battle congestion isn’t a new idea. Since 1990, Southern California has added more than 100 miles of light and heavy rail in Los Angeles County, and more than 530 miles of commuter rail regionwide, according to a recent study. And yet, traffic remains terrible. How can that be?New statistics from the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority offer one alarming reason: Despite all the spending on public transportation, its ridership is falling. In fact, recently released statistics show that in 2017, ridership fell to its lowest level in at least eight years — mostly because far fewer people are taking the bus.Experts and officials have many possible explanations for the decline: competition from ride-share companies, changes in immigration policy that impact some of the region’s most reliable transit users, and the fact that some would-be riders just don’t think public transit is safe.But a new report from the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California, Los Angeles, says the biggest reason is that more Southern Californians are buying cars. Between 2000 and 2015, the study says, private vehicle ownership in the area increased from 1.7 to 2.4 vehicles per household. And the study says car ownership grew fastest among “foreign-born households” and other low-income people who tend to take public transit the most.“Transit today relies on a high rate of use by a narrow base of people,” the report’s authors wrote. “But if that narrow base of people is acquiring vehicles, transit’s healthy future lies in reversing those circumstances, and striving for at least a low rate of use by a broad base of people.”In a region of 18.8 million people, they note that about 77 percent use public transit rarely or never. It’s a pool of “vast untapped potential.”The obstacle? Driving remains too darn cheap.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• President Trump lashed out at Representative Adam B. Schiff over his role in the Russia probe. Mr. Schiff, a California Democrat, has pushed for the release of a reply to a Republican memo on the investigation. [The New York Times] [The Los Angeles Times]• San Francisco’s police department will be the first in the nation to volunteer for state oversight. The move comes after the federal government ended a program meant to ease tension in the wake of fatal shootings at the hands of the police. [Associated Press]• On Sunday, a Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputy shot and killed a 16-year-old boy thought to have a firearm tucked into his waistband. [Associated Press]• The author of the new book “Brotopia,” says that Silicon Valley’s male-centric culture stems from, among many factors, a long-ago study that indicated that antisocial people made better programmers. She says that stereotype continues today. [The New York Times]• A federal judge in California will hear a case on Friday that could pave or block the way for Mr. Trump’s border wall. The judge on the case is Gonzalo Curiel, whom the president taunted during the 2016 campaign. [McClatchy]• Vacant lots. Dying orchards. Boarded-up homes. The plan for the gleaming bullet train has created a 119-mile corridor of blight that one rail designer is calling “a linear ghetto.” [The Los Angeles Times]• At least 40 people lost their jobs at Bee Sweet Citrus in Fresno County after immigration agents began checking employee records recently. [Fresno Bee]• Tesla promised to change the world with eco-friendly cars. Workers like Terrill Johnson have been hurt along the way. [Buzzfeed]• Mayor Darcy Paul of Cupertino says a housing shortage in his city isn’t dire and does not require major action. His comments are drawing criticism. [Mercury News]• “You are going to be talking about Democrat-on-Democrat crime.” This year’s election is likely to push California’s political conversation even further to the left. [The Washington Post]• A Syrian baker is bringing Middle Eastern ice cream to California. Bouza has the consistency of cold, stretchy taffy. [The New Yorker]Wildfires. Mudslides. The possibility of another drought. This state’s recent environmental drama might have you thinking a bit more about climate change — and about how it could affect your family.You’re not alone. The Times reporter Maggie Astor spoke with more than a dozen people from California to Cairo about how climate change is affecting their decisions to reproduce or not. Some are swearing off children because they’re concerned about raising a family in a world of receding shorelines and violent fires. Others are disturbed by the idea of expanding their carbon footprint — having a child is one of the costliest environmental actions a person can take.Among those interviewed was Cate Mumford, 28. Though her Mormon religion teaches that God has commanded followers to “multiply and replenish the earth,” she will not have children of her own, she said. Instead she will adopt.She’s received some pushback from members of her church. But a few years ago she traveled to smog-filled China, and all she could think was this: “I’m so glad I’m not going to bring a brand-new baby into this world to suffer like these kids suffer.”California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement