AdvertisementSupported byAsia and Australia EditionBy Charles McDermid(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Trade retaliation, murmurs of dissent in China and overlooked obituaries. Here’s what you need to know: • President Trump signed off on tough tariffs on steel and aluminum, promising to be “very flexible” after facing a global outcry.The tariffs have raised fears of retaliation. “Choosing a trade war is a mistaken prescription,” China’s foreign minister said. (Our senior economics correspondent calls it more of a “skirmish.”)Mr. Trump suggested some allies, including Canada, Mexico and Australia, might be spared. But some nations aren’t taking any chances. A group of 11 — including Australia, New Zealand and Japan — signed a broad free trade deal in a direct challenge to Mr. Trump’s protectionist agenda.And our news podcast, “The Daily,” examines Mr. Trump’s claims about tariffs and trade deficits._____• China is all but certain this weekend to throw out a 1982 rule that has restricted the country’s presidents to two five-year terms. The beneficiary, President Xi Jinping, could be in power for life.To position himself for this moment, our correspondent writes, Mr. Xi “deployed speed, secrecy and intimidation to smother potential opposition inside and outside the party.” Here’s a look at Mr. Xi’s rise to power.Despite the display of support, murmurings of opposition suggest that Mr. Xi and his subordinates have not fully sold the idea to a broader public. Such stirrings of discontent, our Beijing correspondents write, could build over time._____• The U.S.-China rivalry is increasingly focused on technology, and at the center of that dispute is 5G, shorthand for fifth-generation wireless technology. Here’s a look at why companies and countries are fighting for 5G dominance.Huawei was a bit player in shaping today’s cellular networks. Now, as 5G approaches, the Chinese telecom giant, is determined to lead the pack, worrying Washington.“It’s a commercial advantage which parlays itself into a security advantage,” one expert said. “Whoever controls the technology knows, intimately, how it was built and where all the doors and buttons are.”_____• The U.S. secretary of state, Rex Tillerson, is on a five-nation tour of Africa, warning against Chinese investment and wearing a tight smile when asked about President Trump’s insulting description of the continent.Separately, in our latest visual investigation, we show how villages in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been destroyed in recent attacks, forcing 140,000 people to flee.This Times Insider piece explains how we used active-fire data from NASA and Openstreetmap to bring the atrocities to light._____• “There’s a lot to fight for.”That’s how one woman summed up the mood on International Women’s Day, which was marked with a sense of urgency this year, in the era of #MeToo and Time’s Up.At The Times, we unveiled a project, “Overlooked,” that starts with the stories of 15 remarkable women who did not receive a Times obituary.The names are surprising: Sylvia Plath, Ida B. Wells, the Bollywood legend Madhubala and Qui Jin, China’s Joan of Arc.Our editor discussed how the idea came to her, and a veteran of the Obituaries desk pondered the historical imbalance. Do you have a suggestion for the series?• Samsung’s new flagship smartphone, the Galaxy S9, arrives with a new feature, AR Emoji, that uses a selfie to create an animated avatar. (Our reviewer called it a bit creepy. His avatar is above.) Base price: $720.• China dominated a list of self-made female billionaires, taking the top four spots and five of the top 10. Zhou Qunfei, founder of Lens Technology, is the world’s richest self-made woman, with $9.8 billion.• How foreign is Broadcom? About 54 percent of its revenue comes from China, but 55 percent of its employees are in North America. Our DealBook column explores that  and other issues of the day.• They call it “alcopop.” Coca-Cola plans to introduce a drink in Japan that combines flavored sparkling water with alcohol.• U.S. stocks were directionless. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.• A flag dispute will keep the two Koreas from marching together at today’s opening ceremony of the Winter Paralympics in Pyeongchang. [BBC]• Two senior South Korean officials arrived in Washington to brief U.S. officials on their meeting with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un and the prospect of nuclear talks. [Reuters]• A former Russian spy, Sergei Skripal, and his daughter are in stable condition after what Britain’s home secretary called a “brazen and reckless” attack involving a nerve agent. Officials suspect Russian involvement. [The New York Times]• Iran prevented the widow of an environmental activist, who the authorities say hanged himself in jail, from leaving. [The New York Times]• A Danish inventor goes on trial in the murder of the Swedish journalist Kim Wall. The inventor, Peter Madsen, is said to have killed and dismembered Ms. Wall on his submarine. [The New York Times]• The Trump administration’s plan to move the American embassy to Jerusalem has a hitch: The proposed site lies partly in disputed territory. [The New York Times]• In a study of mice, scientists learned that a type of immune cell is key to making tattoos permanent, knowledge that might help improve methods for removing them. [The New York Times]Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.• Plan a movie-themed vacation with these tips and see the places your favorite films were shot.• The Global Entry system is not only for U.S. citizens.• Recipe of the day: Want an elegant and easy breakfast? Try a “soufflazy.”• Women may be the answer to a severe labor shortage in Japan’s construction industry. But workplace problems aren’t being helped by a tone-deaf government recruiting campaign. (To attract female welders, for example, a cartoon depicts a woman wearing a pink uniform with a heart-shaped welding mask.)• “Pachinko,” Min Jin Lee’s epic novel set in Korea and Japan returns to our paperback trade fiction best-seller list, and Peter Frankopan’s “The Silk Roads” is on the paperback nonfiction best-seller list. You can find all of the lists here.• And from K Road to Indigenous Drive. Our 36 Hours travel series explored Auckland, New Zealand, a city that is laid-back, but also sophisticated. If you go, here’s what to pack.President Trump has recently conducted a series of televised conversations with lawmakers as well as with regular citizens.Forty-one years ago, President Jimmy Carter held a similar unscripted discussion, answering questions from callers during a live radio broadcast from the Oval Office.“Ask President Carter,” moderated by the CBS anchor Walter Cronkite, was broadcast on the afternoon of March 5, 1977. (You can read a transcript here.)Mr. Cronkite invited listeners to call the White House at 900‐242‐1611. According to CBS, more than 9 million Americans tried.Some of the dozens of questions that Mr. Carter answered were distinctively of the late 1970s: about the gas tax, Mr. Carter’s pardoning of draft dodgers in Vietnam and the early days of the U.S. space shuttle program.Others — about tax overhaul, drug abuse and relations with Cuba — still resonate today.One caller asked why members of Congress were getting a $12,000 raise while Mr. Carter was proposing that taxpayers receive a rebate of only $50.“Gerald, that is a hard question for me to answer,” Mr. Carter replied.“I’m sure it is,” the caller said. “That’s why I thought I would throw it at you.”The program caught the public’s attention (“Saturday Night Live” ran a spoof the next week), but it was never repeated.Chris Stanford contributed reporting._____Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement