AdvertisementSupported byBy David LeonhardtThis article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.The resignation of the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention only adds to a list of Trump administration scandals that has already become terribly long.This newsletter first published a list of those scandals last year, and my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick and I have updated it to include a few new entries from this week. “There have been 4 new stories about Trump administration self-dealing in the last day alone,” Jonathan Chait of New York magazine tweeted yesterday. (Chait’s story is here.)The C.D.C. director, Brenda Fitzgerald, quit after a damning exposé by Politico’s Sarah Karlin-Smith and Brianna Ehley. They reported that Fitzgerald had purchased shares in a tobacco company after taking charge of the agency that discourages smoking.Other revelations include conflicts of interest involving Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development (via The Washington Post); the Trump family real-estate business (via The Palm Beach Post); and Trump’s infrastructure advisers (via Democracy Forward Foundation).Even apart from the Russia story — be sure to read the latest Times scoop on Russia if you haven’t yet — this administration is more scandal-plagued than any other in memory.Lost Einsteins.  I recently wrote about the problem of “lost Einsteins.” The term refers to the recent finding that even highly talented low-income children rarely become inventors or entrepreneurs. The problem affects everyone, because these children don’t get the opportunity to grow up and devise scientific breakthroughs or new products that would benefit society.A new report picks up on the theme and highlights one cause: Poor students who excel in school are much less likely than affluent children to take classes that challenge them.According to the report, from the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, only 6.1 percent of students in high-poverty schools are enrolled in so-called gifted programs — which include everything from accelerated high-school math classes to small groups for advanced elementary-school readers. By comparison, 12.4 percent of students in low-poverty schools enter such programs.It’s clear that these gaps aren’t mostly about the students’ ability. Many low-income children score high on standardized tests — and still don’t get the education they deserve. My “lost Einsteins” column and the underlying academic research have more details.Not surprisingly, the problem is especially severe for black and Latino children, according to the Fordham Institute report. Among the states with the fewest black and Latino children in advanced classes (relative to their white and Asian peers) are Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey and New York.The report makes a few recommendations to address the problem. One is “universal screening,” so that all children — not only a select group chosen by teachers and administrators — are assessed to determine who should enroll in gifted classes.“Lost Einsteins” are a lose-lose proposition. The situation is deeply unfair to many children — and who knows how much progress it’s costing our society.You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).OpinionDavid LeonhardtAdvertisement