AdvertisementSupported byBy Zabihullah Ghazi and Mujib MashalCHAPARHAR, Afghanistan — There was no military curfew in the villages, but, as a precaution, the farmers still informed the local police outpost that they would be in their fields before dawn, with lanterns and shovels, to channel water to their crops.In a chaotic war of many players on both sides and with civilians bearing the brunt, the advance notice did not save their lives.On Saturday morning, an elite unit of the Afghan intelligence agency — possibly accompanied by advisers from the American-led NATO coalition — descended on two villages in Chaparhar district in the eastern province of Nangarhar, killing as many as eight farmers in their fields, local elders said.“It was 4 a.m. My two brothers were out to channel the water, and we had informed the security post that we would be out watering our plots,” said Mohammed Israr, whose o brothers were killed in Mano, one of the villages attacked. “I was upstream, and the helicopters came and fired at my brothers. They were killed, shovel in hand.”Mr. Israr said that a bit farther from their plot, five others who were taking a break for morning prayer, putting their lanterns by the mosque, had also been targeted. They had also informed the local security forces before going to the fields, he said.The victims ranged in age from 14 to 40, including Atiqullah, 20, who had gotten married three months ago. According to Hukum Khan Dawlatzai, a local tribal elder, 29 others were arrested in the raid.Nazim Jan, the commander of the local police unit in the village, confirmed that his forces had been informed by the farmers that they were going out to irrigate. It apparently made little difference that the crop was opium, which is grown extensively across the country despite more than $8 billion in American efforts to curb the industry.“Yes, they had informed us that they would be out watering their fields,” Mr. Jan said. “The helicopters came and shot them. We saw the helicopters coming — they did it unilaterally, they killed innocent civilians.”A senior security official in Nangarhar, speaking anonymously because he was not authorized to speak to the media, said the force, known as the 02 Unit, had arrived in NATO coalition helicopters and was accompanied by coalition advisers.A provincial politician said such raids are typically carried out with NATO’s assistance.“When the 02 Unit operates, it usually operates under supervision of the Americans,” said Zabihullah Zmarai, a member of the Nangarhar provincial council. “They usually have American helicopters,” he said, adding, “Even when they come by road they have foreign advisers.”Officials from the country’s intelligence agency, the National Directorate of Security, could not be reached for comment.Capt. Tom Gresback, a spokesman for the American-led NATO coalition, rejected the claims that American or coalition forces, or their helicopters, were involved in the raid.“We are aware that several Taliban were killed to include a high-value individual and more than 20 suspected Taliban were detained to include three additional high-value individuals,” Captain Gresback said.Provincial officials in Nangarhar at first denied that civilians had been killed in the raid. But when villagers carried the bodies to the district center hours later, with nearly 200 protesters accompanying them and chanting, “Death to the government” and “Death to America,” a senior official privately acknowledged that government forces had caused the casualties.The police guarding the district compound opened fire on the protesters, killing one and wounding two others.Afghanistan has experienced a rise in violence in recent weeks, even before the official start of what is expected to be another bloody fighting season, when violence intensifies as the cold weather relents. In two weeks, 170 security forces have been killed, according to local news reports. The government says more than 500 insurgents were killed in about the same period.Fighting has raged across the country, with some of the heaviest coming in the western province of Farah, where insurgents are once again at the gates of its capital city, and in the northern Faryab Province, where dozens of local militia fighters have surrendered to the Taliban. More than 100 advisers from the American-led NATO coalition have arrived in Faryab to help.The increase in violence may once again test the resolve of the country’s government, which recently presented an extensive peace offer to the Taliban.Even as President Ashraf Ghani and his international allies prepare for what they see as an opening for talks, and with American officials reporting signals of willingness from some Taliban leaders, Afghans are wary of another bloody year ahead.Last year, 3,438 civilians were killed and 7,015 wounded, according to the United Nations. As the war spreads across the country, often deep into populated villages, the effects are taking a heavy toll on civilians. When the violence is perpetuated by government forces, it highlights the deadly bind in which civilians find themselves.The Afghan intelligence agency has long been accused of abuses, particularly torture and mistreatment in detention centers. Although a recent United Nations report said the government had shown commitment to improving such practices, the agency continues to draw criticism.“Before this incident, too, the 02 Unit has carried out multiple operations in which civilians have been killed or wounded,” said Sabrina Hamidi, head of the Afghan human rights commission in the east. “This is an issue of concern for us.”In the west of the country, officials in Farah Province said the provincial capital, Farah City, remained surrounded by the Taliban.“Over the last two weeks, we have lost more than 40 security forces,” said Dadullah Qani, a member of the provincial council in Farah.Fighting has also raged in Faryab Province. A government militia commander in the province surrendered with about 80 of his fighters to the Taliban on Friday, according to Naqibullah, a fellow militia commander in the province. But a spokesman for the Faryab police played down the episode, saying the commander had surrendered with only 15 fighters.Coalition forces have used extensive airstrikes in Faryab and in neighboring Jowzjan Province, according to Afghan officials, including B-52 bombers, a hallmark of the early years of the American-led invasion, the district governor, Baz Mohammed Dawar, said.Captain Gresback, the coalition spokesman said, “As a result of our alignment of air power, we will maintain relentless pressure on the Taliban using a variety of aircraft to conduct daily strikes, including B-52s” and other aircraft. “These strikes continue to support a capable Afghan ground force,” he added.Zabihullah Ghazi reported from Chaparhar, and Mujib Mashal from Kabul, Afghanistan. Reporting was contributed by Taimoor Shah from Kandahar, Afghanistan; Najim Rahim from Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan; and Fahim Abed from Kabul.Advertisement