AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Eric ColumbusMr. Columbus served as a senior counsel to the deputy attorney general from 2009 to 2014.For those alarmed by President Trump’s assaults on the rule of law, there have been two versions of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. The good one appointed the special counsel, Robert Mueller; defended him; and has allowed the investigation to take its course. The bad one gave Mr. Trump cover to fire the F.B.I. director, James Comey; released private text messages of F.B.I. employees; and complimented the president in public.But Mr. Rosenstein deserves praise because of — not despite — his occasional willingness to appease Mr. Trump. Without making compromises, he would have been long gone. Many people fear that if Mr. Trump were to fire Mr. Rosenstein, it would imperil the Mueller investigation. The same has been true for almost a year; the earlier Mr. Rosenstein had been forced out of office, the worse the possible damage. A successor to Mr. Rosenstein could fire Mr. Mueller, limit the scope of his investigation, decline to approve investigative steps or eliminate public reporting requirements — not to mention interfere with the separate investigation into Mr. Trump’s longtime lawyer, Michael Cohen.Last May, Mr. Rosenstein wrote a memo to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, “Restoring Public Confidence in the F.B.I.,” that excoriated Mr. Comey for his handling of the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s emails: in particular, his July 5, 2016, news conference, in which he criticized Mrs. Clinton harshly while announcing she would not be charged, and his Oct. 28, 2016, letter in which he said the investigation would be reopened because of newly discovered emails. Mr. Sessions forwarded that memo to the president with a recommendation that Mr. Trump fire Mr. Comey, which the president did the same day.Mr. Rosenstein immediately came under attack for writing a memo that he knew would be used to disguise Mr. Trump’s true motivation for removing Mr. Comey.Some called for Mr. Rosenstein to quit. Benjamin Wittes, writing for the Lawfare blog, demanded that Mr. Rosenstein name a special prosecutor and then resign because of the “apparent corruption” evidenced by his “gutless” and “shocking” memo. Richard Painter, the former chief ethics lawyer for President George W. Bush and now a leading critic of Mr. Trump, said “Rosenstein got played” and should “show some self-respect and resign.”But to what end? The resignation of an unknown official who had been in the job for just two weeks would have done little to sway public opinion. Mr. Trump surely would have fired Mr. Comey anyway. Mr. Rosenstein’s replacement could well have been more sympathetic to Mr. Trump and less eager to defend an investigation that could harm him.Instead, Mr. Rosenstein limited his criticism of Mr. Comey to an issue — his handling of the Clinton investigation — that he knew no reasonable person would believe was the basis for the president’s decision. Indeed, the previous month, Mr. Trump said that he had “confidence” in Mr. Comey, who, he noted, had been “very, very good to Hillary Clinton.”It isn’t clear whether Mr. Rosenstein actually believed that Mr. Comey’s campaign missteps merited his firing just as the Russia investigation was heating up, or whether he merely obliged Mr. Trump by writing the memo. Either way, he didn’t do Mr. Trump any favors. Mr. Trump soon erased any doubt as to his motive when he told NBC’s Lester Holt that he fired Mr. Comey because of “this Russia thing” and told visiting Russian officials that the firing had relieved “great pressure because of Russia.” Whether by design or not, Mr. Rosenstein had set a trap for Mr. Trump, into which the president eagerly jumped.Eight days after Mr. Comey’s firing, Mr. Rosenstein appointed Mr. Mueller as special counsel. For the past year, Mr. Rosenstein has supervised the Mueller investigation, served as a useful buffer for Mr. Mueller and made clear that Mr. Mueller can be fired only for “good cause” and that no such cause exists. Indeed, thanks in large part to Mr. Rosenstein, the Comey firing did not, in fact, achieve Mr. Trump’s goal of sidetracking the Russia investigation.Mr. Rosenstein has continued to appease Mr. Trump and his congressional allies in matters small and large. In June, following back-to-back stories that Mr. Mueller was specifically investigating both Mr. Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, Mr. Rosenstein warned that “Americans should be skeptical about anonymous allegations.” In November, Mr. Rosenstein praised the president’s “respect for the rule of law,” citing his appointments to the Department of Justice and F.B.I.In December, following reports that the F.B.I. agent Peter Strzok had been removed from Mr. Mueller’s team because he had exchanged text messages criticizing Mr. Trump with a colleague with whom he was said to be having an extramarital affair, Mr. Rosenstein provided the messages to Congress.Commenters noted that further exposure of their texts could subject them to embarrassment and ridicule; one slammed Mr. Rosenstein for an “aggressive act of betrayal.”But Mr. Rosenstein once again had little choice and made the best of a bad situation. Normally, when a federal agency is on solid ground to resist a congressional document request, it enjoys the White House’s full support. Here, however, Mr. Trump was loudly siding with Congress, eager to dig up dirt to discredit the F.B.I. and Mr. Mueller. Caught in this pincer, Mr. Rosenstein could hope only to mitigate the damage. The department provided a broad set of texts to Congress and shared them with reporters, who could then write stories that made clear that Mr. Strzok criticized everyone, not only Mr. Trump.The unprecedented alliance between the Republican-controlled Congress and the president against the Justice Department — which now includes calls for Mr. Rosenstein to be held in contempt of Congress or even impeached — has forced Mr. Rosenstein to share documents relevant to the criminal and counterintelligence investigations. Playing a weak hand, Mr. Rosenstein has made Congress spend time and energy to obtain documents, while aiming to live to fight another day.Has Mr. Rosenstein always calibrated correctly the benefits of compromise against its costs? Probably not; no human could. But he has been right to look at both sides of the ledger.Weeks before his firing, Mr. Comey disparaged Mr. Rosenstein in a private conversation with Mr. Wittes of Lawfare, saying he had “concerns” because Mr. Rosenstein is a “survivor.” In Mr. Wittes’s paraphrase, Mr. Comey feared that “you don’t get to survive that long across administrations without making compromises.”But sometimes the best way to do justice is to compromise with those who would deny it. By surviving, Mr. Rosenstein has preserved not just his job but also the integrity of an investigation into, among much else, possible wrongdoing by the president. Like the bamboo that bends but does not break in the wind, he has shown a flexibility that may have helped preserve our institutions despite the raging storm.Eric Columbus (@EricColumbus) served as a senior counsel to the deputy attorney general from 2009 to 2014.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement