AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and Sandra Stevenson(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. “A genuine breakthrough.”That’s what Senator Chuck Schumer called the far-reaching budget deal he struck with Senator Mitch McConnell in a rare bipartisan moment. The agreement would add hundreds of billions of dollars to military and domestic programs over the next two years.But it has only tomorrow to pass in the House before a federal shutdown, and there’s opposition on both sides of the aisle there.Representative Nancy Pelosi spoke on the House floor for hours to protest the bill, which did not include protections for the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers. Above, a TV screen showed footage of her remarks on Capitol Hill.____2. Stocks on Wall Street wavered again, and markets appeared to be recovering from days of tumult.If you’re a young investor, and this is your first market hiccup, we have some advice.President Trump, in his first comments about the stock market plunge, blamed the “good (great) news” on the economy for the abrupt declines, and called the volatility “a big mistake.”____3. “Kim Jong-un’s Ivanka” will be part of North Korea’s delegation at the Olympics opening ceremony.She’s the sister of Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader. (Her nickname in South Korean media offers a hint of her influence in his secretive government.)Kim Yo-jon’s visit — the first to the South by an immediate member of the North’s ruling family — will most likely include a meeting with President Moon Jae-in. But the real question is whether she, or any other top North Korean official, will meet with Vice President Mike Pence.____4. The Los Angeles Times is being sold to Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire doctor who grew up in apartheid South Africa, for $500 million. The deal comes after months of turmoil and turnover at the paper.Dr. Soon-Shiong was once a major shareholder in Tronc, the newspaper’s parent company. He told us in a 2016 interview that he considers newspapers a “public trust.”____5. Silicon Alley is growing — rapidly.In the latest jump in Manhattan’s tech footprint, Google is buying the Chelsea Market, a mammoth food mart, office building and tourist attraction, for $2.4 billion.Google’s New York headquarters, across the street, already has more square footage than the Empire State Building, and Amazon, Facebook and Spotify are also expanding in the city.____6. Chile killed Tony the Tiger.Facing skyrocketing rates of obesity, the government is waging war on unhealthy foods, including nixing iconic cartoon characters from cereal boxes.Nutrition experts say the broad effort is the world’s most ambitious attempt to remake a country’s food culture.____7. Online porn is everywhere, and young people sometimes learn much of what they know about sex from it.Our magazine looks at a new approach in use in some after-school programs in the U.S.: teaching young people to view pornography more critically. They call it “porn literacy.”____8. Two writers have discovered an unpublished manuscript they believe Shakespeare consulted to write some of his most famous plays.How’d they do it? With the help of software typically used by professors to nab cheating students.The authors are not suggesting that Shakespeare stole his material, but rather that he was inspired by the imaginative, florid language in “A Brief Discourse of Rebellion and Rebels,” written in the late 1500s by a minor figure in the court of Queen Elizabeth.____9. The U.S.-Mexico border is in the news every day, in continuing debates about immigration and spending on security initiatives. But what is it like to visit?To find out, we sent writers to five sister cities there, to see the sights on each side. In Tijuana, our intrepid correspondent embarked on a delectable gastronomic tour. Above, a torta she dubbed the best sandwich of her life.____10. Finally, in honor of the Olympics, here is our guide to South Korea’s prime export: K-pop.That’s the term used to describe the ecstatic and outrageously polished pop music that has become essential to the country’s global image. The style and sound are unmistakable — pinpoint precision, flamboyant fashion and smoothed-over borrowings from American R&B and hip-hop. Above, the boy band EXO.K-pop acts will perform throughout the Winter Games and the music will have a notable presence in the closing ceremony, on Feb. 25.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement