AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkLast week we asked students to post suggested topics for a writing prompt, and Xander Kruvczuk from the United States of America  did:I have an idea for a daily prompt. This seems like something that this publisher has already used, but if it hasn’t been used yet I’d like to recommend seeing how it goes. “Can you hate what an artist, what they stand for, or what they believe in, but still enjoy what they create?” This topic seems like it would have been covered during the Harvey Weinstein controversy, but I recently saw something that made me think of it. Kanye West posted on his Twitter that he supports Donald Trump. Not even a day later, he had lost 10 million of his followers. It made me think of how fickle some people are, and what they actually like about certain artists.Now, it later turned out that Kanye did not lose 10 million followers, but we loved the idea in general. This week it became the question, “How Much Do a Celebrity’s Personal Beliefs Influence Your Opinion of Their Work?” Let us, and Xander, know what you think.And if you have ideas for a writing prompt, we’ll be posting a new one every school day from now through early June, so please let us know.But if you’ve been participating in our forums all year, it’s time to step up your game. We’ve just announced our Ninth Annual New York Times Summer Reading Contest, and we hope you’ll join us.It runs for 10 weeks, from June 15 to Aug. 24, and all you have to do to enter is just answer the question, “What interested you most in The Times this week?”As we do here, we’ll choose favorites every week ... except in the summer we ask journalists from around the newsroom to help, and we crown just one top winner every Tuesday (though we also recognize many runners-up and honorable mentions). So if you’ve been feeling hemmed in by waiting to see what articles we choose, now’s your chance to choose your own.Now, enjoy this week’s selection.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted._________Our most popular prompt, “Is School a Place for Self-Expression?,” asked teenagers how much they reveal about their true selves in their work for teachers. The responses were fascinating.Polaris Hall from Danvers High School, Mass., argues that school should be a place to learn about yourself:School isn’t the place for self-expression, but it should be. Teachers often tell students that they should show their personality in their work, but then deem it “unprofessional” or “distracting” - how is that supposed to encourage us? Kids and teenagers alike need to express themselves to their peers, their teachers, and their communities, especially when they aren’t accepted at home. A school is not only a place for learning facts - it’s a place to learn more about yourself and about how you relate to the world around you while being supported by people who care (why else would a teacher choose that job?). Allowing kids to learn these skills and supporting them as they do so yields adults who know how to bring passion into their lives - even if they have a 9-5 job they’d love to quit. Of course there are teachers who love to see kids grow and figure out how to be themselves in a safe, joyful way, but so often our need to meet a certain standard or rubric leads us to abandon our individuality. It’s a sad world if the push for perfection quashes the vibrancy of self-expression. Instead, we should let this drive for self-improvement be enhanced by our individuality to create a richer, happier world.Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts thinks assignments need to be more open-ended:In school, many students feel detached from their studies. I hear complaints all around me about how boring assignments are and how much students dislike memorizing facts about distant topics. We are constantly bombarded with work that is not relatable to our interests and is very structured.However, some assignments are more open-ended, and I think that these are the pieces of work that students can learn the most from. Depending on the topic of work, certain classes allow for projects in which students can choose what they would like to study and then apply the information from the class to their own personal interests. When these assignments are given, it is much more common for students to be truly interested and invested in their work.While I rarely hear fellow students gushing excitedly about the assignment that every single person had to complete in the same way, when delving into something that they actually care about, people tend to be more excited about their learning.Brianna Colangelo from Concord, N.C., says only one kind of class encourages expression:I feel that school shuts down self-expression, by dress coding people for wearing things they are comfortable or confident in, by making you do everything exactly the way the teacher wants it or else getting a bad grade, judging your intelligence on questions that have one exact answer that the teacher is looking for. At my school i don’t have a chance to ever express my culture, my family, or my personality. The only time at my school that i get to express my experiences and ideas are in my AP classes, in my AP classes i feel as though the teachers care more and they don’t just ask questions with one answer, i feel like those teachers are genuinely trying to help me learn, understand and voice my opinions not just get their paycheck, and leave.Julia Patrum from Concord says it’s easy to “start feeling like a number” at school:Personally I do not consider school to be a place where I find myself flourishing on a personal level. The person I am is not really how I am at school at all. I feel like this is the case for most high school students as well. Aside from my personal friends at school, my peers don’t really have a true glimpse at how I am as a person.This may be due to the lack of encouragement in bringing your personal lives to the school environment....We learn so much throughout the course of our four years in high school, but only a small portion of that will be actually useful in the future. We are not encouraged to find ourselves or express as people while in school. It is easy to start feeling like a number rather than a person sometimes, and thats the sad truth of it all.Liam Breen from Danvers, Mass., believes clothing, clubs and assignments provide opportunity:I believe that while the idea of school itself isn’t exactly a place for self-expression, schools often can be a place for self-expression, if students choose to express themselves. I attend Danvers High School, where, like most public high schools, there is not a strict or severe dress code, enabling the students to express themselves through what clothing they choose to wear. Furthermore, students can express themselves in their classes when participating in creative assignments, we are occasionally allowed to relate our work back to a subject we are interested in, as I wrote an argument in my AP English class discussing the pros and cons of Joe Montana and Tom Brady. Additionally, students are allowed to express themselves with the people they choose to spend time with, and the people they are associated with. My school has a large amount of clubs and sports teams that students may participate on, and in choosing what sport they play or what club they are a member of, students are expressing their interests and who they are as a person.Tia Terrian from St. Cloud High School, Fla., feels most expressive at home:My home is where I feel best able to express myself. There, I am surrounded by family, I know we have seen all of each other’s sides: the good, the bad, and the ugly. We may tease each other, but we are always accepting of one another no mater how crazy we are. We have grown up together and they have had my back through everything. My family has seen me at two in the morning bouncing all over the walls and seen me at 6 in the morning looking completely dead as i get ready for school. They already know how I act and look in most situations and nothing surprises them anymore. My family has been there for everything and I know that no matter what, they will always be there. I convey my thoughts, questions, ideas, and emotions very loudly at home and chaotic. I know that my family is the same and we may seem crazy and out of control to anyone outsider lolking in, but we get each other and we like it that way.Eliza Gómez St. Cloud High School, Fla., gives a shout-out to the one teacher who allows her to express herself:In my opinion, I do not feel like I have had the freedom to express myself at school as I will want to, due to many factors. First, you as student can easily get judged by others even by teachers when you do not agree with their ideas and opinions. Second, when you try to express your opinions, emotions or feelings, there is always someone against it. Most of the times, I do feel like our ideas are not appreciated in school, they may ask our opinions but we are not going to see changes due to our ideas. We haven’t had freedom to express our personalities, culture, and ideas at school because we are forced to a certain way of writing, and as the article says, “somewhere along the way, these young people were told by teachers that who they are in their writing ought to be divorced from who they are on their phones,” (paragraph 3). Students are not only someone else in their writing, but at some point even prohibited to use the word “I” in essays, lacking the opportunity to express themselves.Although most classes don’t give students the opportunity to express themselves, the only class that have fully given me as a student the opportunity to express not only my ideas and opinions but also my culture has been Freshaman Composition class taught by Mrs. Martin. Nora from Oxford, Miss., credits journalism class with encouraging expression:I only feel that my personality, culture, family, experiences, and ideas are appreciated in journalism. We have many opportunities to write about things we like and express ourselves in creative formats. Such as, the editorials we are writing and the bellringers we do everyday. In other classes like reading we could instead of having essays with prompts we could write about our family and culture and maybe even have an open discussion about topics and issues going on in our community.Isabella from Maine says English class gives students a chance to talk about their feelings:In English class we sometimes are asked about our feelings in the moment or about a topic and at times we are asked a tricky question and have to give our best answer. This just gives us a chance to write our opinion and feelings. We are also asked to just write about what happened over the weekend or vacation so it emerges in a school work quite enough. I personally like writing about personal and my own life.Makayla from Oxford, Miss., thinks the people within a school are what make it expressive:School is where the majority of kids spend their days. To me, I feel like school is a place for self-expression. I say this because of the different races, culture, and language thats distributed throughout the school. The overall diversity that a school house contains is what makes it full of expression. After reading the article, I can say that I was somewhat able to question and articulate “devotions, frustrations, little triumphs, and large peculiarities” because they all deal with self-expression and how I carry myself. I could say that one-fourth of what I care about outside of school does involve inside of school because I tend to lean more on what I know from the outside to learn more about on the inside. All in all, expression and school was rebooted in my mind.And a “noobie teacher,” Liza M. from Seattle, WA, gives her perspective:As a noobie teacher who got picked to teach the other English teachers’ least favorite class, college prep writing, I often feel pressed to quelch creative expression for the sake of formal academic writing. Though my heart is in creative nonfiction, prose, and countless genres of fiction, I am required to create curriculum that teaches all students, from the potential engineer, to nurses, to artists, how to communicate persuasively and effectively in writing. With the common core standards and emphasis on reading nonfiction and writing persuasively, I always get nervous about seeing too many “I” statements in the papers I receive.It’s a hard balance to teach how to put your unique imprint on an academic piece, but I know it can be done. Most of today’s everyday readers aren’t reading heavily structured academic pieces (unless they’re in school studying specialized knowledge), they’re reading the op ed columns, arguments in the comments, and articles about topics they are interested in. Not just that, they’re looking for writing that catches their attention and keeps it. I’m not setting my students up for success to be such writers if I don’t allow them some creative self-expression, so Mr. Kolb’s points are refreshing and affirming. At the same time, I have to teach students how to read and write with a critical eye so we can have smart citizens who don’t believe or reproduce misinformation. It’s a hard balance because “critical” often feels like the enemy of “creative.”_________The Picture Prompt “Childhood Bedroom,” asked students what the items in their bedroom say about their future, their goals and dreams, and how they spend their time.Mackenzie Boone from Wilmington, N.C., has a room “smothered with books”:I have a problem with not throwing things away, that stays the same whether it’s scraps of paper and bits of trash, or the random postcards I’ve gathered through the years. My floor is covered in clothes, mostly clean, so I can access them fast and easy when getting ready for school! (This doesn’t happen, it’s still somehow my excuse for the mess.) And everywhere, there are books. In to be read piles, favorite or comfort book piles, new and no home piles, musician biography piles, the classics pile. You name it. Not to mention the two bookshelves, also smothered with books. They are the most consistent items in my room, because when I moved throughout my childhood it was always something to give my new room, the homey feel I wanted in a new place. My books are from my youngest years, all the way up to the three books I bought last week. They are all around the house, because I refuse to let any of them go, but the special ones live in my room. Some have flowers from England, or dandelions from Texas, some have handmade bookmarks, or literal lost puzzle pieces, even poems and thoughts from specific moments of my life to future me. These books bear the scars of my childhood. They are battered, worn, and loved. So I think if I had to pick any item in my room to describe my life and my strengths it would be all of my books collectively. They are genuinely a part of my past, present, and future self, and it’s evident when looking at them.Haley Moroz from Wilmington, N.C., says holding on to certain items is a way of holding on to personal strengths:Last month, I thought it was a good idea to go through my room. My findings were very interesting as I found: old clothes, 23 Birthday Cards, and other hoarding materials. The garbage can outside was filled all the way to the top with junk. I started to realize that the stuff I didn’t throw away was important to me. I found a letter I wrote to myself in 6th grade. I also found a Birthday card that my aunt wrote, which she lives in Colorado. That meant a lot because I don’t get to see her a lot. Finding these treasures, made me remember these exact moments.Similar to the author, I didn’t throw these away. I kept them in a box, which is now in my closet. Including my middle school awards, first pair of cleats, and etc. As I head into the future, I will cherish these memories. By doing this I will fix my mistakes, and hold onto my strengths. Holding onto these maintains who I am.Veronica from Kaplon says certain items are too important to toss:My room is a direct reflection of the chaos happening in my mind around the clock. Sometimes, I’ll uncover something intriguing, but typically, it just get shoved into the background without much consideration. Perhaps an old shirt in the corner, representing a more sane time in my life, a sequenced dress representing a time I was less careful and more open to the 12 A.M social scenes... You know... the all too common, annoying teenage problems which I can’t seem to shake quite yet.... Truth be told, looking at the surface of clothes which hang from every orifice in my room, I could dispose of 3/4 of the things....Oh, but not my cherry red lipstick and the slightly cracked picture of my family... (Don’t ask about the crack... I haven’t quite figured it out just yet).Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., keeps things that will help her reminisce when she grows up:If somebody wants to get to know me, all they need to do is to come inside my room. Over the past few months, I have gone through all of my belongings, and have thrown the junk away while keeping all the things that actually matter. Awards from Elementary school for being in the art show, toss; my old dance shoes; into the trash. But other objects that matter, my old American Girl dolls, post cards from a trip to Greece and aged photos, are some of the things that I want to carry into the future. I have crafted my room to paint a complete picture of who I am. That way, when I am older and grown up, I will have a lot of reminiscing to do when I come back to my childhood bedroom.Emilia Cordon from Wilmington, N.C., keeps things that bring her “to another time”:Recently I’ve excavated my room finding much of the norm: too many pointe shoes to count, some random clothes I would never consider wearing today, and just a ton of junk. I filled two whole trash bags with junk. Not every thing was junk though. I found a letter I wrote to myself about hating my mom, a birthday card I wrote for someone in third grade but never gave to them, and a violin from my classical music era. These types of items bring me to another time like the author of the essay. I can almost fathom exactly how I felt at that moment just by seeing a remnant from my past.There are things I would never consider throwing away. Things like my first pair of pointe shoes, my middle school graduation awards, or my art and map that covers the walls. These things are part of myself and my past that I would like to remember. While I evolve into a better person, I still want to hold onto the past and either remember my mistakes or my strengths. I don’t know if this hints to my destiny, but I want to retain my identity as I travel into the future._________Our Student Opinion question “Are You Intimidated by Classical Music and Art?” asks students how they feel about classical music, modern art, theater and opera.Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts has never been afraid, and has suggestions for the intimidated:I have never been afraid of classical music. Perhaps it’s because I’m a flutist, but I’ve never shied away from Tchaikovsky, I’ve never been skittish of the Goldberg Variations.It is a great tragedy when we think of classical music as being haughty, or the sort of music that only plays in art galleries. When we constrict concertos to being things that exist in certain parts of our lives, we miss out on the humanity of music. Let classical music bleed into the modern era. Let your heartbreaks align with the great crescendos of cellos. Let your life fall into a handful of 4/4 measures, and then, and perhaps only then, will you learn to appreciate music the way it was meant to be appreciated.The best way to watch a concert where classical music is being played is to simply not watch at all. Close your eyes. Let your mind wander as the orchestra carries you through major and minor, through tempos you can feel throughout your entire body. Don’t let yourself be intimidated.Collin from Lawrence dislikes the pretention around classical music, and says it is for everyone:It is sad to hear that people are intimidated by classical music.I would like to begin by saying that I have been playing the piano for a while and I can see where people might feel intimidated by a classical piece. In most classical pieces there isn’t a band or a producer, there are 50 or so musicians working together to produce a masterpiece to the ear. This is intimidation in its own right, most people don’t sit down with some friends and throw on The Four Seasons by Vivaldi. It is complex and full of life, to truly enjoy it you must listen to it live. But, where there is live music, there will be people. Here is where I can understand, I can’t tell you how many people will try to put themselves above everyone else by talking about “How splendid the crescendo was” or “How the staccato really gives the piece a unique sound” This stuff even annoys me, and I understand what it means. To someone just looking to enjoy some nice music, this can be a major turn off. I think this is the biggest issue for newcomers. There seems to be an obligation to say crescendo instead of, It Gets Louder. This negative stigma makes it seem like you must be well educated to enjoy music, this isn’t true. If you have ears, you can appreciate music, it’s that simple.Kaplan Aktas from North Carolina thinks familiarity adds to the attraction:I’ve loved classical music since I first listened to it and to put it plainly, I can’t wrap my head around this “Classic music insecurity complex” because classic music in and of itself is a form of art. The symphonies are each like a vivid painting and the composer an artist. As for the second question, I would totally be willing to listen to a performance or piece due to the dedication of the composer or violinist etc, and the beauty that is classic music.There are times when I can’t appreciate music if I know what it was truly about or how it was created, or simply because I’ve listened to it way to many times. But on the contrary, the more I know about a certain song, on the matter of how it was made or it’s meaning, I can like it much more like Overture With Cannons (Yes, he actually had cannons at the performance) which was made by Tchaikovsky to commemorate Napoleon’s invasion of Russia, or Richard Wagner’s Ride of The Valkyries which reminds me of the iconic opening scene of ride of the Valkyries and many other parallel scenes.Elliott O’Deen from North Carolina hopes classical-style music will continue to be played and enjoyed:I am a musician and I love and appreciate all music. I appreciate modern day music and symphonic pieces from the 1800’s. I know people seem to have CMI, the insecurity of not being able to fully understand the technical aspects of music but still are moved. I don’t think anyone should feel that way because yes the composer or artist have intentions with the ways they want you to feel but music is for everyone. Whether you are a musician or just a casual listener, it’s okay to have opinions about music in which you don’t know the full meaning.Classical style music will hopefully always be made so there is always time to have a great appreciation for it even if you don’t fully get it.Eleanor Black from Wilmington, N.C., has just begun to appreciate classical music:I have recently begun to listen to classical music. I think it is a very beautiful experience and I’m ashamed to say that I didn’t realize I had been intimidated by it until I read this article. Everything about classical music is bold and sophisticated: the volume, the tempo, even the words they use to describe their pieces such as “the work features a truncated development with chromatic modulations to distant keys and modally inflected motivic cells.” The Classical Music Insecurity Complex is what causes people to feel uncomfortable listening and or talking about this genre. You don’t have to know a thing about classical music to enjoy listening to it. It’s all about the way the music makes you feel when you listen to it and I hope that more people will one day be willing to branch out of their comfort zone and try listening to it.John Smith from Cherry Hill, N.J., references scientific evidence that music changes the brain, and thinks both music and the brain inspire awe:MUSICOPHILIA: MUSIC & THE BRAIN Is one of the masterpieces of the late renowned neurologist, Oliver Sacks. To me it is his crowning glory. Sacks wrote that with the brain scans of the 80s and 90s, scientists were able to observe the activity in centers of the brain far more accurately than before. They discovered that music engages more brain activity than any other human area of study. In fact, he mentioned in an interview with Terry Gross in Fresh Air on NPR that if he had Einstein’s brain, it would look no different from any other brain. But if he took the brain of a professional musician, the impact of music on the brain results in highly visible changes in its structure, including the thickening of the corpus collossum that connects the two hemispheres of the brain and growth in the area of the brain where sound is processed, as well as other areas. Music and the brain inspire awe and wonderment. Just relax and enjoy it. Your brain will take care of the rest. Of course, if you wish to study, you can do that too.Julian Fandino from New York says exposure brings a level of comfort:I have always been exposed to classical music, art, and theater. Ever since I was in my mother’s womb, classical music has been part of my life. My interest and enjoyment of such art forms comes as a result of my exposure to such. This has allowed me to be more comfortable and interested in seeking an understanding of these mediums. In the end, it was my interactions with classical music, art, and theater that have further enhanced my enjoyment of them. I feel my experience is a great example for the claim made by Mr. Hoffman: “there’s no denying that the more we know about music, as with cooking or gardening or football, the more levels of enjoyment are available to us.”Ramatoulaye Diallo from New York said relatives and friends have influence:Growing up, I would always listen to rap and r&b. If someone were to tell me to listen to classical music I would have probably laughed and wonder if they were serious. The people I was surrounded by influenced me to listen to music aside from classical music. In all I would say that I am intimidated by modern art and classical music but that all is from my roots and how I grew up. Reading this article did not change my opinion on classical music because I am so costumed to a specific type a music. I do not see myself attending a performance because I am simply not interested in it. However, I do agree with Hoffman when he said that the educational system have a part in “Classical Music Insecurity”._________Students weigh in on our Picture Prompt “Breakdancing” with their thoughts about whether dance should be an Olympic event.Kayla Renee from Pennsylvania says it should:I say that if cheerleading and gymnastics are considered a sport, that breakdancing should be too. Breakdancing is more than just dancing it targets your muscles and requires strength, just like every other sport. Breakdancing has it’s own world of battling and competitions which is why I think it shouldn’t be an olympic sport, but if it was that’d be pretty cool.Brooke Myers from King of Prussia agrees:Break dancing should definitely be in the Olympics, it takes tons of practice like everything else, uses a lot of concentration, and takes a lot of work. It would also add a little more “spice” to the Olympics. I’d also like to see rock climbing as an Olympic sport, it’s so different and people don’t even think about it but it takes the same amount of work, pressure, concentration, and practice if not more.PinappleCake from NC thinks dance is more about artistic expression than competition:Taking an art like dancing to the Olympics is something I would not watch. To me dancing is a way to express myself when I am happy or eating really good food. Watching people show off their dancing skills might be cool for the next person but for me it’s something that has a deeper meaning than competition.Nick Hargrove from Wilmington, N.C., believes dance does not fit the criteria for an Olympic event:I personally do not think breakdancing should be an Olympic Sport. There has to be a point where you draw the line. The article went on to talk about some things such as a rubik’s cube competition or hacky sack which just seems plain out absurd to me. While these activities may take a extensive amount of time and dedication I do not perceive the people competing in these competitions as athletes. Honestly I think for the IOC to open up the Olympics to new competitions, it ruins the integrity of the Olympic Games. Breakdancing has no place in the Olympics until it is further established. Serouj Aprahamian (a breakdancer) even petitioned that the IOC who was known for ballroom dancing would have no idea how to run a breakdancing competition.Another thing I feel like that is crucial when determining whether a new sport should be introduced to the Olympic Games is “is there room for it?”. While there are currently 42 summer sports there are only 15 winter sports. One sport that I enjoy playing and watching is baseball. While it is not recognized as an Olympic game I am completely fine with it as there is the World Baseball Classic which is also held every four years.While the article may have jokingly mentioned Donkey Kong as a potential Olympic event I do see gaming being at least questioned as whether it should be a Olympic event or not. I play plenty of video games myself but rather than introducing esports into the Olympics they should instead create an E-Olympics._________“How Alike Are You and Your Friends?” challenged students to think about these relationships through the lens of scientific research on brain activity:James Wilt from Wilmington, N.C., thinks friends can have dissimilar personalities:When I finished reading both articles, I was left surprised and skeptical that there might be a scientific correlation to us being friends. Although this might be true, friendships develop over time. You don’t instantly become good friends with someone, it takes a while. Some of my friends I’ve known for years but haven’t started actually being friends with until this year. Friendships are not entirely dependent on sharing extremely similar personalities. I’m a quiet liberal who isn’t the most social person on the planet while a lot of my friends are very talkative conservatives who are incredibly social. It doesn’t matter. We’re friends because we’re different, because if we were all similar it would be like talking to yourself all of the time and that would become maddening.Anon from Germantown, Md., prefers friends with different opinions:I happen to go from friend to friend, not having a permanent group. However, the people I happen to be friends with always have characteristics similar to my own. Humor, for one, is a driving factor in who I look to seek companionship from. I believe it’s important to surround yourself with different opinions, so you won’t shroud yourself in a bubble, and so you can grow as a person. I am not very surprised to see a scientific correlation, because there must be some reason as to why I am drawn to specific people, specifically those of the opposite gender who are around my age and have similar but not exactly the same socioeconomic conditions.Jiwon Lee from CA shares common attributes and background with friends:My friends and I are very alike in a way of being indecisive and innocent. Also, we all are Asians, sophomores, and short we have almost same heights. We are interested in Asian food and culture. Since I have friends who are very similar to me in terms of personality, interests, appearance, and educational level, I have expected that a person’s friends would be similar to the person in personality or backgrounds, but I never knew that friends have similar brain activities. I thought that way because we became friends after some time we met for the first time; I don’t think we really had any instant chemistry with my best friends. I don’t remember why, but we started having lunches together at some point. Then, we somehow continued our awkward conversations and found out what we have in common. The advantage of having similar friends is that we could keep talking constantly about many topics because we usually talk about what we are all interested in and knowledgeable about. However, having similar friends does not help very much about extending my knowledge or views because I wouldn’t get to hear different perspectives. On the other hand, I could learn a lot from friends who are not similar to me, but I often feel overwhelmed when they explain so much information to me, and I don’t understand most of their explanation.Rachel Long from Wekiva High School remembers bonding right away:I tend to see patterns with my closest friends with the way we behave, the way we speak, our facial expressions and mannerisms, but this is all after we have been very close for a while. I have a very large and diverse friend group but one commonality that I know we all share is determination and drive to succeed and similar mentalities when it comes to school and sports alike. The fact that my friends and I are so alike in this way causes us to push each other to be our best selves, instead of allowing each other to just be good. However, sometimes this becomes more of a competition than motivation. While not all of my friends are my best friend, the people that I consider my best friends are the least like me. They were easy to connect with and we didn’t judge each other upon first meeting. We were able to bond right away.Kayla Renee from Pennsylvania likes differences:Me and my friends are similar, I wouldn’t use the word alike. Being exactly like your friends is boring, because eventually you learn their every move. My friends and I don’t always see eye to eye on everything but for the most part we have the same tastes in music and enjoy the same activities. No two friends should be exactly alike or enjoy EVERYTHING together, friends argue and disagree all the time. Without our differences we’d all be... Ordinary.Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., agrees difference makes friendship interesting:I share the same core values with all of my friends. What brings us together is our overall trust that we have with each other, and an understanding that goes beyond simple things. We all value honesty, kindness, grades and most of all loyalty. While at the center, we all very much similar, there is little overlap in our personalities and interests. Everybody in my group has different things that they are involved in. That is what makes us interesting. If everybody was the same, the world would be a very boring place. Some of my friends like sports, others art and writing. But no matter how different we are, what really matters is that we all share a mutual understanding, and have similar values above all else._________Students responded to the question “Are You Conforming to or Rebelling Against Your Parents’ Wishes for You?” with details of their hopes and dreams.Jessica Lee from Wilmington, N.C., knows her parents have high expectations — but trusts them:What my parents want is what’s best for me. It’s what they’ve always wanted. I’ve never had to rebel against my parents because we want the same things. I long to be a doctor when I grow up, and they support me (maybe it’s because they’re doctors too). Being half-asian, I know the struggles that the author points out, but I do realize that my parents have high expectations not because of my background, but because of me. It sounds like the author had numerous toxic fights with her parents, which is not the case in my family. My parents only push me to do what they know I can do, although I know this is not the case with other families.I talk to my parents about my future knowing that they know more than I do. I want to go into the same field as them, so I ask if they could do it over again, what profession would they go into. I think I am more like my dad, but I can relate to my mom too. Seeing the differences between my family and the author’s family widens my perspective about American expectations. I think that as long as a child knows that their parents want what’s best for them, it’s easier for both sides to understand each other.I love and trust my parents, and we have a great relationship because of their expectations. I am grateful that they are open about my accomplishments and decisions. It’s important to find a balance between expectations and open-mindedness.Ashton H from NC both conforms and rebels:Parents, hopefully, want the best for their child. However, what the parent wants may not be what child wants or even what the child needs. Personally, I fall in between rebelling and conforming. I try not to do anything that would horribly upset them, but I also won’t back down. There are some things about me that are just part of who I am, whether or not parents want to accept it. Most of my choices do upset them, and definitely confuse them, and most of that has to do with the fact that what is more widely accepted today by the world was not what was widely accepted for the majority of their lives. These decisions do affect my relationship quite a bit, and have since caused a lot of stress and strife. But in the end, it is my life. I’m not interested in breaking laws or hurting anyone, I just want to be myself.The parents of Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., have one rule:My parents want me to do something with my life that is my choice, but there is one contender: I must be able to support myself. After college, I must be able to live on my own and maintain a job. I have to major in something that has great job prospects, so I can go out into the real world. I am confident that whatever career I choose, my parents will support me. Their ultimate wish is that I pursue a career in something that I am passionate about. I am going to follow my parents guidance when it comes time to pick a major, because the last thing I want is to be out of college, and my parents are saying “I told you so.”Veronica from Kaplon’s parents have become more involved in her plans over the years:Truth be told, my parents who I love dearly are somewhat paradoxical characters. The younger I was, the more freedom I had when it came to my future. Dentist one day, president of the United States the next. I hate to call it a ‘phase’ because it only accredits my parents more but sure, I’ll give it to them this time. Despite my diabolical and somewhat ourageous aspirations considering their insurmountable odds, my parents went along with it. Perhaps, even encouraged it. However, upon my graceful induction into what I then called, ‘twelve-teen’, their unhinged enthusiasm saw an unexpected pullback. And man did I notice. Nowadays, just a year away from college, from the sidelines they lovingly attempt to micromanage all aspects of my life and steer me away from the inevitable horrors which await me. How do we engage in these deep, analytical, thought-provoking conservations about my future? For now, there is nothing a good movie can’t fix.Some students also make suggestions for how to have difficult conversations with parents. Rosie from Oxford, Miss., thinks young people should stand up for what they want:Some of my decisions are way off of my parents wishes and decisions. Both of my parents are lawyers and both of my grandfathers are lawyers. My dad, I believe, would like my siblings or I to take over one of the families businesses. I would like to be an ophthalmologist, which is my dream job. My parents agree with me on that, but they sometimes disagree with me on the little things. All in all, my parents love me very much. They respect me and my decisions too, even if my decisions are not what they want for me. Others should confront their parents, and say they are set on this particular thing. If not, you could be forced and pushed into a direction that you wouldn’t want to be or do with your life.Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts says she listens to her mom’s valuable advice:For as long as I can remember, I have loved plans. I like knowing definitively what I’m going to do, when I’m going to do it, and where. The plans changed as I grew up - when I was eleven, I wanted to be a veterinarian, and then I realized I’d have to know everything about every animal. When I was fifteen, I wanted to be a barn manager, and then I realized I’d make next to nothing. Now, I’m seventeen, and I want to be an OT and live in New York City. That’ll probably change, as plans always do. But for now, I’m happy.My mom was the one who pointed out the holes in my plans. Pointed out salaries and the things an average eleven or thirteen-year-old will forget. Pointed out the sharp edge of reality when my head was in the clouds. My mom taught me compassion and empathy, and I took those lessons and ran with them, and now I hope my life revolves around those things. She is hardly ever confused or angry about decisions I make - it was hard for me to relate to kids who panicked over flunking tests because their parents would “kill them”.And Alec Barden from Wilmington, N.C., recommends inviting one’s parents into the conversation:Personally, I am conforming to my parents. Your parents are the ones that you live with until you go off to college. They provide a roof over your head and food on the table. Your parents pay for college and teach you valuable life lessons. I am very respectful towards my parents at all times.As for the article, when Ms. Kuo writes “Invite your parents into the conversation. Let them believe they are helping to guide you. Offer information that might persuade them. Mention older people whom you have consulted, spelling out their paths” I fully agree with her. Communicating and interacting with your parents is something that I have always done. I know many teenagers that basically ignore their parents. I believe that is very disrespectful, developing a weak relationship between kids and their parents._________Students share the places that act as the “Public Square” in their communities in response to our Picture Prompt.Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., gathers with friends and neighbors downtown:In my neighborhood, the downtown area acts as a gathering place for the community. After school, students from both middle schools flock to the center of town. Lines are formed outside of the local drug store where penny candy is sold, starbucks, the arcade and pizza restaurants where slices can be bought for under 2 bucks. The restaurants that line our streets are great for families too, along with the large park situated in the middle of town. It is the downtown area that really makes our community what it is. I am so grateful for it, and although I may take this luxury for granted, I truly am amazed at how wonderful it feels like to live in a neighborhood with an excellent downtown area.Xander Kruvczuk from the United States of America thinks social media has made public gathering places less common:It my hometown, the place where all my friends still meet up at is the movie theater. Whenever a movie that we all want to see is playing, we schedule a time and go to see it. Other than that though, we never really hang out outside of school. I feel like online communication has diminished the amount of places such as these. I can easily see how waffle house would be a good meeting place for people to gather. The only bad part about waffle house is that there are none in the Northeast. It’s such a great place to be with family and friends._________Our Student Opinion prompt “Do You Gamify Your Life?” asks students if they track any numbers related aspect of their lives, like hours slept or steps taken each day.Zech Edwards from Nevada, Texas, says competition is the reason why some people “gamify”:As of now, I do not relate to anything that Mr. Yagoda does but do relate to the ideas he addresses. I think the reason people may have these tendencies because in today’s age, everyone is competitive, and, being competitive myself in life, realize it make sense to relate it to a video game. My “small triumphs” consist of getting better grades than a friend on a test or beating someone in a race or lifting more than someone. I am not surprised at the extent to which Mr. Yagoda “gamifys” his everyday life, because, while I do not relate it to games, I do compete with those around me and set goals in the same way.Liliana R from Texas thinks it is fun:I do identify with the habits and behaviors that Yagoda describes. It’s possible people do this to have fun with life, and look at it like a level in a game. Sometimes when I’m in the car I’ll imagine something that happens around me in the buildings or fields I see.Chandler Ross from Texas sees the practical applications:I see where Mr. Yogoda is coming from in his article. Many people plan to or even carry through with mapping out their days or even weeks so that they stay on track. example is some families make a “Week Meal Menu” 1.) so they know what each day of the week they are eating and 2.) so they can but just things on their list from the grocery store to make those meals and not buy extra items they don’t need.Jazmine from Texas tracks school grades:I personally do not identify myself with the habits and behaviors she describes. By “Gamify” she means by tracking numbers of any sort. such as your weight gain, your electric bill, and your grades for school. The only thing I really tend to “Gamify” is my school grades. Because if I ‘Gamify” everything else it would become a hassle of time and would become an energy drainer.Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., thinks numbers enhance reality:By “gamifying life,” once remedial tasks, like going to CVS or taking a shower become adventures. Numbers are a way to enhance reality, adding excitement to places that need them most. I can identify with Mr. Yagoda’s plight, because I do the same on an almost daily basis. When I am in school, I often create a hand writing competition between my right and left hands. Considering that I am a righty, that hand always wins, but nevertheless I still like to keep score. In my head I play geography trivia with myself, thinking of a random country than trying to say the capital. Believe me, it makes those boring moments go by in a heartbeat. If it was for the games that I play with myself, life would be a lot less fun. They are not just a way to pass time, but to enrich it.Mackenzie Boone from Wilmington, N.C., says games fight boredom:Ever since I was little I have hated being bored in the car. Considering my family takes many a road trip, I started pretending my hand was on an obstacle course. I would “jump” and ‘run” on telephone lines, and have to blink in between every white line on the road. It would keep me occupied for a while, but eventually I’d get bored and want to stop, but I never could! I’d get this strong and really strange feeling that if I didn’t finish the game my character would die. Which manifested itself into a weird game I couldn’t win. Obviously this isn’t the same as making weight loss a game, or turning a CVS into a battleground, but I’m saying I understand the fascination and innate desire for seemingly pointless or boring journeys to have a purpose. Winning and losing are feelings that create drive, to achieve or avoid and I don’t think it’s strange to live by that even in the most simple tasks._________Students commented on our Picture Prompt “Procrastinating” with their positive and negative work habits.Mackenzie Boone from Wilmington, N.C., is a major procrastinator:I think every procrastinator believes they are the worst procrastinator, which is exactly how I feel. My procrastination habits were once a thing that left me to complete my work in a spur of creativity, whenever the moment felt right.But it’s gotten to the point where I sit and I wait for some creative idea to hit, it never comes, and me being so determined to do my best, I just don’t do it. Or when it comes to studying which requires no creativity, I feel the need to wait for panic to set in to motivate me.But usually my panic becomes so overwhelming I ignore it like I ignore the looming world war. There have been multiple projects though, that I have done the night before involving some artistic theme that were (not to brag, but I’m going to brag) some of the best in the class. Which doesn’t help me in truth because then I fool myself into believing procrastination will always benefit me. Which I know isn’t true but I still somehow stand by that fact. So maybe my procrastination habits will destroy my academic life and my future to come, but I’ll cross that bridge when I come to it.But Betzabeth4D from YC CLIP likes to get things done as soon as possible:Most of the time I would said I feel myself as a pre-crastinator, I hate when I have to finish any task and I cannot do it for sort of reason, in my personal opinion procrastinate a task is a waste of the time. If I finish something, I believe I can enjoy the free time that I have without any worries, or also i can start a new task without have to think in the other one. However after read this article its make me think in a different way. I never though procrastination could be very helpful when you are planning about to be creative.Giancarlo4D from YC CLIP falls in between:I am something in between. Sometimes when I have time, I decide to do the work early, but when my friends call me, I decide to procrastinate a little bit just to have fun. Procrastinating makes us reduce stress. However, procrastination is in theory bad, because we leave our work to the end. Most of the time we do not end doing our duty. I feel so bad with my habits because I do not have too enough time to do my personal things, for example going out with friends, enjoying with my family or exercising. I only think about work and study. I think that I have to change my habits and create a little space for myself. Postpone a project to the last minute does not make a better job because you have less time to research and to correct errors. In my experience, it is better to do our duty in the beginning than procrastinate. If you do not do well and have many errors one project that is evaluated in thousands dollars, may be devalued to only hundreds of dollars.Some students are frustrated by their procrastination habits, like Rex Hardy from Wilmington, N.C.:I have always been a procrastinator and it seems a problem I’m never going to solve.It all started back in the 4th grade with Mrs. McCullough. I had been assigned my first big project, the notorious Science Fair Project. Not really knowing how much time it would take, I waited and waited until the night before it was due. I stayed up ’til 1 or 2 in the morning, which was far past my 7:30 bedtime.Little did I know that this would be the routine for every project and test for the rest of my school career. I’ve tried many times to break this habit, yet I can’t. The best I’ve done is a temporary fix that lasted for about a couple of weeks. New Years Resolutions, words for the year, and far in advance planning hasn’t done the trick. Now, procrastination doesn’t mean all I’ve gotten is bad grades. In fact, that science fair project was picked 3rd in my school and was chosen to compete at the county level. In reality, I got away with procrastination all through elementary and middle school. This is the first year procrastination has really kicked me in the butt. Like my mom has told me on numerous occasions, “The work is only going to get harder and harder and this habit isn’t going to work.” I should’ve listened a long time ago and I probably wouldn’t be sitting with a “B” average in AP World or staying up tonight to finish multiple assignments. I know something has got to change or my dreams of making it to a big-time college will be gone.Eventually I’ll figure it out, right?But others see the benefits of putting things off until the last minute. Jonathon Calkins from St. Cloud, Fla., says it can help with memory:I am also a procrastinator. Procrastinating is often seen as a negative thing. I, on the other hand, see it very differently. I believe that I perform my best when I work under the pressure of a time constraint. From studying last minute, things tend to stay fresh in my brain allowing me to remember things better. When I study or do my homework without procrastinating I often find myself daydreaming or getting distracted to easily. Procrastinating has gotten me this far in school so I might as well keep it going.Andrea Hernandez from Saint Cloud, Fla., feels more focused under pressure:It could be two in the morning and I’ll still find an excuse to not complete an essay due the next day. In fact, I’ll just put it aside and set an alarm for 5:00a.m. The sound goes off, blaring in my ears and the feeling of regret immediately settles in. I contemplate my life and all the horrible decisions I’ve made leading up to this misery, yet I always seem to be the most focused under pressure. Knowing the job needs to get done under a time constraint allows me to give my undivided attention to the task at hand, disregarding all distractions surrounding me. As much as I hate having to procrastinate, it has served me well all along.And Huberney4D from YC CLIP is more likely to experiment:I am certainly sure that I am a procrastinator. I often feel frustrated when getting close to a deadline, because I had wasted time in meaningless actions just for entertainment or leisure without completing or even staring an important work or task. I do not think procrastinating has a bright side. Procrastination makes you waste valued time you could use performing an important task. Although, I had been in situations where my limited time caused by procrastinating force me to take risks. I would not take otherwise. As when I was, taking painting classes and very often my procrastination habits brought me to the deadline with an empty canvas. In those moments in order to finish my painting in one night, I experimented with different techniques that sometimes helped me not only finish faster my painting, but also leaving good results.Advertisement