AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew R. ChowJohn Legend steps into the sandals of Jesus. And Benedict Cumberbatch stars in a new movie about grief and loss. JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR LIVE IN CONCERT 8 p.m. on NBC. Celebrate Easter by watching John Legend portray Jesus. The R&B superstar will take center stage to play the son of God in Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice’s once-villified, now-canon rock musical. “I had a hard time turning down the role of Jesus Christ,” Mr. Legend told The Times. He’ll be joined at the live Brooklyn armory performance by a starry cast that includes Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene and Alice Cooper as King Herod. And Brandon Victor Dixon, who recently played another conflicted antagonist as Aaron Burr in “Hamilton,” will take the role of Judas.MLB BASEBALL There may have been a big snowstorm recently, but that’s not stopping baseball from heralding the return of spring. Two games will be televised nationally on Sunday: At 1:10 p.m., the St. Louis Cardinals face the New York Mets on ESPN. And at 8:37 on ESPN, the San Francisco Giants hope to kick-start another year of Even Year Magic as they wrap up their series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, who came within one victory of winning the World Series last year. Rich Hill, who started two World Series games, gets the ball for Los Angeles.BEVERLY HILLS DOG SHOW 6 p.m. on USA. Despite protests at other events, expect to see lots of fur on the red carpet.IN ICE COLD BLOOD 7 p.m. on Oxygen. As Fin Tutuola on “Law & Order: Special Victims Unit,” Ice-T has spent a lot of time around crime scenes and corpses. He turns his attention to real victims in this new series, which spotlights crimes involving sex, money, and murder through interviews, archival footage and re-enactments. Is it any good? Well, this writer would prefer not to draw Ice-T’s ire toward critics, as seen in a recent Twitter outburst: “Criticizing things??! Is the EASIEST job in the world. It’s [sic] takes NO talent what so ever,” he wrote on Wednesday. So you’ll have to watch to find out for yourself.THE CHILD IN TIME 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Benedict Cumberbatch has built a huge fanbase and drawn accolades for playing emotionless and highly poised characters, as in “Sherlock” and “The Imitation Game.” He plunges into a character with the opposite characteristics in this adaptation of Ian McEwan’s 1987 novel. He plays Stephen Lewis, a writer whose daughter disappears; he and his wife (Kelly Macdonald) struggle to cope with the trauma, and he is soon besieged by memory jumps and hallucinations that leave him with a shaky grasp on reality.ROSEANNE on Amazon Prime. “Fuller House” didn’t get nearly as many headlines. The reboot of Roseanne Barr’s family sitcom stormed to the center of the country’s culture war last week, as the first episode drew huge ratings and earned a congratulatory call from the president. Return to earlier, less contentious times by binging the original nine seasons. (Here’s a guide to the best episodes.)Advertisement