AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump has been criticizing Amazon over the past week, and on Thursday he suggested — inaccurately — that the company is ripping off the United States Postal Service.Jimmy Kimmel was dumbfounded by the criticism, and Jimmy Fallon took the opportunity to poke fun at Trump.“But why insult the people at the post office by calling them Amazon’s delivery boys? They deliver things — that’s what they do! It doesn’t make them boys. They’re adults!” — JIMMY KIMMEL“President Trump has been sending angry tweets about Amazon for the way they run their business. Then someone handed Trump some bubble wrap from an Amazon box and he forgot all about it.” — JIMMY FALLON“After Trump attacked Amazon on Twitter, their stock fell by 5 percent. It’s all part of Trump’s plan to get Amazon’s stock to match his approval rating.” — JIMMY FALLON“This is when I appreciate Twitter: It used to be, if you wanted to hear a 71-year-old man whining about the post office, you had to go to the post office.” — SETH MEYERSDwayne Johnson sat down with Kimmel on Tuesday, 48 hours after April Fools’ Day, but he still found a way to play a prank on the host. He told Kimmel with seeming sincerity that his girlfriend had played an April Fools’ joke on him, pretending to go into labor and nearly letting him take her to the hospital before she revealed the joke. (All of that turned out to be completely made up.)“Six of Trump’s cabinet members have been questioned about improper spending. Trump was shocked. He said, ‘I still have six cabinet members? How’s that possible?’” — JIMMY FALLON“You know, the police grease the poles specifically so people won’t climb them, and then they do anyway. It never works. If I was in charge, instead of grease, I’d use Krazy Glue. You want to climb that pole? You’re going to be up there for a while.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, on the Philadelphia police’s response to Villanova’s win in the college basketball championship game on MondayA perfectly reasonable — that is, nonsensical — debate on “Late Night” turned into a set-destroying stunt sequence. All parties seemed pleased.Trump’s team wants to take its legal battle with Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic-film actress known as Stormy Daniels, into private arbitration. Kimmel thinks “private arbitration” sounds like the name of a porn film.Mike Myers appears in “Terminal,” a new comic thriller. His part isn’t big, but it’s his first live-action film role since 2009. He will talk to Fallon on Wednesday night.Cardi B, the rapper, whose interview with Fallon in January became a viral smash, will co-host “The Tonight Show” with him on Monday. It’ll be the first time the show has officially had a co-host.Advertisement