AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesNew TV shows, museum openings, film releases and concerts — it’s a lot to keep track of. Let us help you. For the week of April 29, seven events in New York and elsewhere not to be missed:Through July 28; juddfoundation.org.With apologies to New York’s blue-chip galleries and to the majestically clean lines of upstate’s Dia:Beacon, there’s no better place to look at the sculptor Donald Judd’s work than in the 19th-century Soho loft building he bought in 1968 and spent decades restoring before his death in 1994.The spare, intensely controlled, hard-cornered approach Judd is famous for takes on a different character when applied to the finish of a hardwood floor or to the precise arrangement of his mattress. It becomes easier to see how formal minimalism is about maximal control. In addition to the art works Judd installed in the building permanently, the ground floor hosts a shifting series of temporary exhibits, including an exciting edition of a dozen candy-colored aluminum hashtag-shaped sculptures being displayed on both walls and floor, the way Judd wanted, for the very first time. WILL HEINRICHApril 27; filmlinc.org; ifccenter.com.Originally, the French director Claire Denis and the novelist Christine Angot intended to adapt “A Lover’s Discourse: Fragments,” a 1977 book by Roland Barthes, into Ms. Denis’s new romantic comedy, “Let the Sunshine In.” Instead, the women decided to write from the female experience, or what Ms. Denis has called “our own love agonies.”Juliette Binoche — ruffled hair, flashing eyes, thigh-high boots inching toward an even higher skirt — stars as Isabelle, a divorced Parisian painter and mother of a certain age who wonders if her midlife search for The One is an exercise in futility. There is the banker (Xavier Beauvois) who finds her charming but his wife exceptional; the actor (Nicolas Duvauchelle) who insists that what they have is not a love thing; the artist (Alex Descas) whose desire to take their relationship slowly masks an inability to commit.Could this, she wonders, be the end of romance? Not so fast, says a clairvoyant played by Gérard Depardieu. He sees a man in her future. “Let the Sunshine In” opens Friday, April 27, at the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the IFC Center in Manhattan before a wider rollout on May 4 in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Ms. Denis will answer questions on April 27 at Lincoln Center and April 28 at the IFC Center, and Ms. Binoche on May 4 and 5 in both locations. KATHRYN SHATTUCKApril 30-May 1; thebreedersmusic.com.Five years ago, the best-known and most creatively fruitful lineup of the Breeders reunited after a long split to play some shows for the 20th anniversary of their 1993 album “Last Splash.” The four members — the twin singers and guitarists Kim and Kelley Deal, the bassist Josephine Wiggs and the drummer Jim Macpherson — found that they got along much better now than they did back when they were helping lead the alt-rock revolution.That foursome has now made an excellent new album, “All Nerve,” that rekindles the tense electricity and unpredictable sense of humor of the Breeders’ peak years, with none of the substance abuse issues that marred that era. (““Opening the doors of perception,” with drugs, Kim Deal recently told The New York Times, “you can really only open the door once. It doesn’t need to keep getting reopened all the time. That was something that I realized.”)This week, the Breeders will play songs from throughout their catalog at three large venues in the New York area: Brooklyn Steel (April 30), Terminal 5 (May 1), and the Capitol Theater, in Port Chester, N.Y. (May 2). And, yes, “Cannonball” is on the set lists. SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSONMay 3; carnegiehall.org.Perhaps only a figure with repertoire tastes as idiosyncratically intellectual as the conductor and Bard College president Leon Botstein would found a new ensemble called the Orchestra Now and perform such rarely heard composers as Frank Martin and Anton Rubinstein. Under the direction of Mr. Botstein and his expansive musical palate, the programming of this new orchestra echoes that of the storied American Symphony Orchestra but is populated with a young group of students who attend Bard and play regularly in New York City.Now in its third season, the Orchestra Now will perform an intriguing program at Carnegie on Thursday that includes Bartók’s classic “Concerto for Two Pianos, Percussion, and Orchestra” with soloists Anna Polonsky and Peter Serkin, but also two substantive curiosities: the Turkish composer Ahmed Adnan Saygun’s snarling Fourth Symphony, and László Lajtha’s Symphony No. 7, a colorfully stirring commemoration of the suppressed 1956 Hungarian Revolution. WILLIAM ROBINMay 2 to May 13; stannswarehouse.org.A reminder to the competitive among us: It doesn’t always matter if you come in first. When Aristophanes’ comedy “The Birds” made its premiere, at the Great Dionysia drama festival in Athens, a guy named Ameipsias walked away with the top prize. That was in 414 B.C., and you’ve likely never heard of his play. “The Birds” was runner-up, though, and it’s still going strong.In it, two Athenians strike out to build a new utopia in a place called Cloud Cuckoo Land. The play was born at a time when Athens’ great democracy had been laid low — a theme as resonant recently in the United States as it was in Greece two years ago, when Nikos Karathanos’ modern, large-cast staging of “The Birds” made its debut at the open-air Ancient Theater of Epidaurus.Full of music, movement and carnality, that production arrives on Wednesday, May 2, at St. Ann’s Warehouse in Brooklyn, where it will be performed in Greek with English supertitles. Adapted by Mr. Karathanos and Giannis Asteris, it’s the centerpiece of an Aristophanes-inspired citywide festival, produced by the Onassis Cultural Center New York, that’s already underway and continues through July 8. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHESMay 1-6, joyce.org.In recent years, dance companies long associated with a single artist — such as the Paul Taylor Dance Company, Stephen Petronio Company and Martha Graham Dance Company — have made efforts to bring in new voices, commissioning works and restaging classics by choreographers other than their founders. Though younger than those troupes, Kyle Abraham’s A.I.M., founded in 2006 (and formerly known as Abraham.in. Motion), is trying out something similar. For its Joyce Theater season the ensemble will perform works not only by Mr. Abraham but also by Andrea Miller, Bebe Miller and Doug Varone.Program A features a new dance by Andrea Miller and Mr. Abraham’s first solo in nearly a decade, “INDY,” which should be a treat: though his dancers are excellent, Mr. Abraham has the most intuitive understanding of his own lush movement. Program B includes Mr. Varone’s 1994 “Strict Love” and Bebe Miller’s “Habit of Attraction,” from her 1987 work “The Hell Dances.” Both programs also include Mr. Abraham’s new “Meditation” and the return of his “Drive,” first seen at Fall for Dance festival last year. SIOBHAN BURKEWednesdays; ifc.com.Last season on “Brockmire,” Hank Azaria turned the airwaves blue as a vulgarity-spewing former professional baseball announcer seeking redemption after his wife’s infidelity triggered a microphone meltdown — and a decade-long bacchanal of epic proportions. Then he broke viewers’ hearts by abandoning perhaps the only woman who could tolerate him after all that: Jules (Amanda Peet), the hard-drinking owner of a minor-league Pennsylvania team, who returned Brockmire to his rightful place in the booth. And fell in love with him.“Brockmire” was always about more than baseball, and Jules’s sweet saltiness transformed his ferocity into something almost profound. Alas for Peet fans, Season 2, which began April 25 and airs Wednesdays on IFC, is a veritable bro-fest. It picks up in New Orleans as Brockmire chases his career and sinful temptation under the protective eye of his roommate and producer, Charles (Tyrel Jackson Williams), leaving viewers to wonder who will set Brockmire right this season. KATHRYN SHATTUCKAdvertisement