

      By SARAH LYALL, 
    
ELIZABETH PATON and 
    
CAITY WEAVER

UPDATED May 9, 2018

What time is the royal wedding? Can you attend? How much will it cost? What name will be on Meghan Markle's driver's license? And dozens of your other really important royal wedding questions answered.
Rachel Meghan Markle, a.k.a. Meghan Markle, an American actress best known for playing Rachel Zane in the long-running legal-intrigue drama “Suits,” is marrying Prince Henry Charles Albert David of Wales, a.k.a. Prince Harry.Saturday, May 19, 2018. The ceremony is scheduled for noon local time (7 a.m. Eastern time) and will last about an hour.At St. George’s Chapel in Windsor Castle.Nope. Buckingham Palace is in London. Windsor Castle is in Windsor, a picturesque old town some 20 miles west of London. Windsor is also known for its proximity to Eton College, which is the private high school Harry and William attended.Nope again. On April 29, 2011, William and Kate (which is what the British papers call her, even though her official name is Catherine, the Duchess of Cambridge) were married at Westminster Abbey, a church that is in London and a 15-minute walk from Buckingham Palace.Sorry, but no, unless you're one of about 600 personal guests who get to sit in the chapel, or among the 2,640 additional people who have been invited to stand on the grounds of Windsor Castle to watch the wedding party enter and leave. That group includes members of the royal household, local school children and “regular” people who work for charities, community organizations and the like.Yes. On March 22, invitations went out to the first 600 guests. The ink was American, the card stock was English and the invitations were printed by Barnard and Westwood.Don’t fret. You can congregate around the town of Windsor with other non-invitees eager to catch a glimpse of the couple as they process through the streets in a carriage beginning at 1 p.m. local time. Windsor is not the world’s biggest town, so for prime viewing spots you might want to arrive early — like, the day before. The town is preparing with bunting (a type of decoration), large screens and refreshments.The wedding will be televised on NBC’s “Today”, PBS and CBS. It will also be live-streamed here on NYTimes.com.While the guest list is a secret, there are a number of predictable attendees: Harry’s grandparents, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip; his father and stepmother, Prince Charles and Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall; various cousins, like Zara and Peter Phillips and Princesses Eugenie and Beatrice; and of course his brother and sister-in-law, William and Kate, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge.Then, of course, there are members of royal families from countries like Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Greece. (Greece is no longer a monarchy, but it has a royal family in exile anyway.) They’re all on a big royal-family-wedding circuit, traveling around to one other’s ceremonies. And, since this is as much public celebration as private service, guests will include representatives from British charities, churches and armed forces; government officials, past and present; and dignitaries from other countries.As for nonroyals, Harry has a posse of boisterous friends — Guy Pelly, Tom Inskip and Thomas van Straubenzee, among others — who are likely to be there. Meanwhile, Meghan has her own family — her parents, who are divorced but are both expected to attend — and a number of famous friends, including Serena Williams; Priyanka Chopra; Sarah Rafferty, who starred with her in “Suits”; and Millie Mackintosh, a former cast member from the British reality TV show “Made in Chelsea.” Victoria Beckham essentially confirmed that she is attending.Nope!“It has been decided that an official list of political leaders — both U.K. and international — is not required for Prince Harry and Ms. Markle’s wedding,” Kensington Palace said in a statement. “Her Majesty’s Government was consulted on this decision, which was taken by The Royal Household.”No, not even him (or Michelle). See above.Yes! According to the invitations, men are supposed to wear uniforms, morning coats or “lounge suits,” by which they mean, essentially, business suits. Women, meanwhile, are expected to wear “day dresses” — dresses that aren’t evening gowns — and hats. The hats are often highly amusing, resembling (depending on how you look at them) flying saucers, plant pots, teacups, hedges, bathing caps, Calder mobiles, frisbees, pyramids, fezzes — you name it. Here you can see some of the many hats from William and Kate’s wedding.The wedding will be a-swirl with all manner of uninformed gossip about the guests: Who knows who, why they are sitting in their particular spots, which ones slept with/dated/still pine for the bride or the groom. Even better, it will be a prime occasion to revisit the talk about the intrigues, allegiances and feuds within the royal family itself.Also, there is always the chance that Prince Philip will say something completely inappropriate.The couple have emphasized that they are responsible for much of the overall tone of the big day. That said, the Lord Chamberlain’s Office, which is the department of Buckingham Palace responsible for all public events  — state visits, palace garden parties and the like  — will oversee all the necessary logistical and ceremonial details.The office is comparable in many ways to that of the White House social secretary. Its day-to-day running is handled by its comptroller, Lieutenant Colonel Sir Andrew Ford. Under him, and working with Harry’s private secretary, Edward Lane Fox, the staff is in charge of such tasks as sending invitations and collecting R.S.V.P.s; drawing up the chapel seating plan; the wedding ceremony itself; and the carriage ride at the end.The Dean of Windsor, who’s the spiritual head of St. George’s Chapel, will perform the service, and the archbishop of Canterbury will preside over the vows.The royal wedding vows are likely to follow a rigid script of words and rituals based on the traditional Anglican wedding ceremony prescribed in the Book of Common Prayer.They say they met in London in July 2016, on a blind date organized by a mutual friend. A few weeks later, he whisked her off to Botswana, where they “camped out with each other under the stars,” Harry said afterward in an interview with the BBC (see below). They then had a few months of long-distance dating, visiting each other in Britain and in Toronto, where Meghan was filming “Suits.”That November, Prince Harry’s office issued a statement identifying Meghan as his girlfriend and denouncing the racist and sexist undertones of some newspaper coverage and social media commentary. “Prince Harry is worried about Ms. Markle’s safety and is deeply disappointed that he has not been able to protect her,” the statement said.Watch this post-engagement interview with the BBC:The ring was designed by Harry himself and comprises a large central diamond from Botswana and some smaller diamonds that belonged to his late mother, Diana, the Princess of Wales.As he explained: “The little diamonds [on] either side are from my mother’s jewelry collection, to make sure that she’s with us on this crazy journey together.”Yes. Anyone who is “one of six persons next in line of succession to the Crown” must receive the queen’s permission to get married, according to Section 3 of the Succession to the Crown Act.Yes. In mid-March, the queen issued her formal declaration of consent at a meeting of the Privy Council. It read as follows:  “My lords, I declare My Consent to a Contract of Matrimony between My Most Dearly Beloved Grandson Prince Henry Charles Albert David of Wales and Rachel Meghan Markle, which Consent I am causing to be signified under the Great Seal and to be entered in the Books of the Privy Council.”And it isn’t only the queen who approves. “The corgis took to you straight away,” Harry told Meghan in the BBC interview, referring to his grandmother’s beloved dogs. “For the last 33 years, I've been barked at. This one walks in and absolutely nothing. Just wagging tails.”It is not important. For one thing, Harry is currently only sixth in line for the throne, after the birth of Kate and William’s third child, Prince Louis Arthur Charles, on April 23. Barring the unlikely event that all the people ahead of him — the current monarch, Queen Elizabeth;Prince Charles;Prince William;and William’s two children, Prince George andPrincess Charlotte,as well as their third child, Prince Louis— are eliminated in some sort of “Kind Hearts and Coronets” scenario, he has no chance of ever being king. And to be honest, British monarchs have nothing like the kind of power that they used to.Because Harry, being unconstrained by the responsibilities that burden his older brother, William, has recovered from some earlier lapses in judgment to bring a delightfully racy and joyously improvisational approach to his royal life. And because Meghan is so different from most royal brides-to-be: She is American, biracial (her mother is African-American and her father is white), divorced and 36, which makes her three years older than her Harry.People of color are underrepresented in British politics and not represented at all in the royal family. Many have said they are thrilled to see someone like themselves in Meghan’s position.The idea has resonated across the Atlantic, too, with #blackprincess gaining traction on Twitter and Instagram the day the engagement was announcement. (Meghan will probably be a duchess, not a princess, but it’s a matter of semantics.)By all accounts, the soon-to-be sisters-in-law get along just fine. They’re neighbors at Kensington Palace and have appeared happily together on several occasions since Meghan and Harry’s engagement was announced.Harry and Meghan currently live in Nottingham Cottage, a (relatively) modest two-bedroom home on the grounds of Kensington Palace, in London.Kensington Palace is a royal residence that is currently home to not just Harry and Meghan, but William, Kate and their children, as well as several other members of the royal family. Buckingham Palace is the home of Harry’s grandmother, Queen Elizabeth II.It’s rumored that she had a spa-themed “hen do” (that’s British for “bachelorette party”) at the Soho Farmhouse, which is a countryside arm of the members-only Soho House, in March.On May 4 palace officials confirmed that Meghan will not have a maid of honor, because she is simply too popular and all her friends love her: “She has a very close-knit circle of friends and she didn’t want to choose one over another,” said the spokesman. An official statement from the palace refers to “bridesmaids and page boys,” but the “bridesmaids” will be young girls, not grown women. And yes, the Duchess of Cambridge may have had her younger sister Pippa Middleton as her bridesmaid, but Pippa’s role was the exception, not the rule. Royal weddings rarely feature adult female bridesmaids.All the British newspapers are in a state of great excitement over the fact that four-year-old Prince George and two-year-old Princess Charlotte are likely to reprise their roles from their aunt Pippa’s wedding last summer as page boy and page girl. Prince Louis Arthur Charles, born on April 23, will be less than two months old on the big day. He is unlikely to participate.Sounds like it. In their post-engagement interview with the BBC, Prince Harry said, “Of course, one step at a time and hopefully we’ll start a family in the near future.”We don’t know yet. Harry is a prince but will undoubtedly get some fancy new title when he gets married. That title will automatically be bestowed on Meghan, too, just as Kate Middleton became the Duchess of Cambridge to William’s Duke. Money in Britain at the moment is on the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, a title that has not been used in the royal family since 1843.Best guess is Rachel Meghan Mountbatten Windsor. Windsor is the last name adopted by the British royal family in 1917; King George V changed the name from the German “Saxe-Coburg and Gotha” to the English “Windsor” amid strong anti-German feeling during World War I.Her mother, Doria Loyce Ragland is a social worker and yoga instructor who lives in California. Her father, Thomas Markle, Sr., is a lighting director who worked in California for years but now lives in Mexico. The two divorced in 1988. Mr. Markle is expected to walk his daughter down the aisle and give the traditional father-of-the-bride speech at the wedding.Born and raised in Los Angeles, Meghan is a true California girl.She has two older paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr. In February, her 51-year-old half-brother told In Touch Weekly that he had contacted the palace for advice on dealing with the press after Meghan’s engagement was announced. He then claimed that his lawyer received a response from Meghan that said: “That’s distant family and I don’t know those people.” Odds are he’s not at the top of the guest list.His name is Trevor Engelson, and Meghan dated him for seven years before marrying him on the beach in Jamaica in 2011. (A mere 100 guests attended that wedding; the marriage was over two years later.) After Meghan got engaged again, Mr. Engelson reportedly began work on a TV pilot about a divorcee who marries a prince. What are the odds?The prince was known for his penchant for blondes until he met Meghan. For seven years he dated Chelsy Davy, a Zimbabwean lawyer turned jeweler. Then there was the aristocratic actress Cressida Bonas and, more recently, the pop star Ellie Goulding. Amazingly, all three of these exes are expected to attend the wedding.That’s the million-pound question. A royal wedding dress is one of the most prestigious commissions in British fashion and guarantees global publicity for its designer, whose identity will be kept secret until the last minute.The current favorite, at least according to the gossipy fashion industry, is the brand Ralph & Russo. Meghan chose a dress made by the London couture house for her official engagement portraits, and the brand is known for its over-the-top wedding dresses, which now account for around 30 percent of annual revenue. Beloved by Beyoncé, the Kardashians, Angelina Jolie and — last but not least! — Kylie Minogue, the brand was valued at more than $285 million in 2014 and introduced a sell-out range of accessories in 2015 and in 2016.Erdem Moralioglu, a Canadian-Turkish designer known for his romantic designs, is another contender. Erdem commands a glittering A-list clientele, recently produced a sold-out H&M; collaboration and already counts Meghan as a firm fan (in a Vanity Fair interview last year she mentioned him as “a designer I’ve been wearing for years”). Oh, and his most recent show, at London Fashion Week in February, was inspired by the tale of an American actress who marries an aristocrat. Sound familiar?As a reminder, when Kate married William in 2011, she wore a spectacular dress with a nine-foot train designed by Sarah Burton for Alexander McQueen, and a tiara borrowed from the actual queen. (The dress was said to have cost the paint-peeling sum of $434,000 to make.) So who will do the honors for Meghan? Only time — or a scandalous leak —  will tell.Harry received the title of Captain General Royal Marines in 2017, which means he is ceremonial head of the Royal Marines (he took over the job from his grandpa, Prince Philip). More pertinently, he’s an officer in the Blues and Royals, part of the Army Air Corps. All of this is to say that he could conceivably wear one of many available Blues and Royals uniforms at his wedding. (Prince William wore a scarlet Irish Guards Mounted Officer’s uniform at his.) Or he could just go ahead and wear a morning suit.But of course. British weddings usually feature fruitcakes.Throwing aside this strange and perverse custom, the couple have decided to serve lemon elderflower cake that will be covered in buttercream icing and fresh flowers and meant to “incorporate the bright flavours of spring.” It is to be made by the hip Violet bakery in the (even hipper) London borough of Hackney. The owner and baker, Claire Ptak, who was raised in California and believes in using seasonal, organic ingredients, said on Instagram that the couple “both share so many of the same values regarding food provenance, sustainability, seasonality and of course, flavour!”On March 31, it was announced that the couple had chosen white garden roses, peonies and foxgloves for their wedding day floral displays.The bouquets, decorations and garlands will be designed by the florist Philippa Craddock, Kensington Palace said in a statement. Ms. Craddock is a favorite of the fashion world and has done floral arrangements for Jenny Packham’s runway show, a Star Wars after-party, Dior events and more.The displays will use flowers and foliage taken from the gardens of the royal palaces and Windsor Great Park, and reflect the wild and natural landscapes from which many of the plants will be picked from, and Ms. Craddock will work alongside a team of florists from St. George’s Chapel and Buckingham Palace.“Working with them has been an absolute pleasure,” Ms. Craddock said of the royal couple, calling the creative process, “highly collaborative, free-flowing, creative and fun.”The presence of peonies was no major surprise: Meghan has previously said on social media that peonies make her “endlessly happy.” White roses meanwhile, were a favorite flower of Princess Diana.Per Kensington Palace: “Later that evening, around 200 guests are being invited to the reception at Frogmore House given by The Prince of Wales.” The Prince of Wales, of course, is Harry’s dad, Prince Charles.According to a statement from Kensington Palace on April 24: "Prince Harry and Ms. Markle have taken a great deal of interest and care in choosing the music" for their wedding ceremony.Those present will hear well-known hymns and choral works performed by the St. George's Chapel choir and an orchestra, plus performances by the opera soprano Elin Manahan Thomas, trumpeter David Blackadder and rising star cellist Sheku Kanneh-Mason, 19, who is the first black winner of the prestigious BBC Young Musician of the Year award.A Christian gospel group, the Kingdom Choir, will also be at the ceremony to raise the 17th-century roof. Royal Wedding Twitter got predictably excited about the possibility of a "Love Actually" moment.Meanwhile the reception and dance floor entertainment remain top secret. The rumor mill went into overdrive when Elton John — a friend of Princess Diana — canceled two scheduled concerts in Las Vegas for the weekend of the royal wedding due to a “scheduling conflict.” The Spice Girls — who have hinted at reuniting for a tour this year — may also provide dance floor entertainment. In February a very coy Melanie Brown (a.k.a. Scary Spice) confirmed that all five band members would be going to the wedding, which will no doubt make the groom very happy. As a youngster, Harry described meeting the Spice Girls as the best day of his life.The Royal Family is paying for the wedding itself — the service, the flowers, the music and the reception. Meghan will pay for her dress. The British public will pay for security.If you have to ask, you can’t afford one.pint(s) of lager1 in the U.K.year(s) of undergraduate tuition for British and E.U. students at prestigious temple of higher education Oxford2crumpet(s) for every British person3 aliveIt reportedly cost $34 million, of which went to security — and was paid for by the British taxpayers. This amount is equal to:1Average cost of a pint of lager is £3.58 in 2017, or around $5.03. [source]2Tuition for Oxford undergraduates in 2016 for British and E.U. residents is £9,000, or around $11,700. [source]3Population of Britain is 65,637,239 in 2016, according to the World Bank. [source]It reportedly cost $34 million, of which went to security — and was paid for by the British taxpayers. This amount is equal to:1Average cost of a pint of lager is £3.58 in 2017, or around $5.03. [source]2Tuition for Oxford undergraduates in 2016 for British and E.U. residents is £9,000, or around $11,700. [source]3Population of Britain is 65,637,239 in 2016, according to the World Bank. [source]In addition to the regular stuff — making official public appearances at various events; making small talk with people in crowds; dressing more conservatively and accessorizing her outfits with the kind of hats that young female royals seem required to wear in a way that is not ironic — Meghan has opted to (or had to) convert to Anglicanism, the official religion in England, before marrying Harry. She has already been baptized and confirmed.Meghan was already a Protestant, so it was not a huge stretch.Yes. And she’ll have to take a torturous citizenship test to do it.Yes. But, she says, “I don’t see it as giving anything up. I just see it as a change. It’s a new chapter,” saying to Harry “Now it’s time to work as a team with you.”In many ways, young royals are just like us: they drive cars, go to supermarkets, drop kids off at school and work out at the gym. But while some have day jobs — Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, for instance — it’s unlikely that Meghan will take on a 9-to-5 job after her marriage. There will be numerous public engagements to attend (exactly what kind will be clearer once she has outlined the causes and charities she plans to support), and you can expect a royal tour abroad with her new husband in the first year or two. Got to keep the fans happy, after all.For one, she’ll have to get used to sitting in royal ranking order. At events attended by a large number of royal persons, members must enter in reverse order of who’s next in line to the throne, from most junior to most senior, with the queen last of all. Partners stay together, so Meghan and Harry will enter first, followed by the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge (William and Kate), the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall (Prince Charles and Camilla), and lastly Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh (Prince Philip). Her Majesty will then be seated in the middle, with the family ordered around her.Also, royals are not meant to make their political views public, at least on certain issues; don’t vote; and can’t run for office. So Meghan, long outspoken on many social issues, will have to be careful with how she uses her new platform.Possibly.The F.A. Cup final, the most important soccer match of the year in Britain. It’s like holding the Academy Awards at the same time as the Super Bowl. #awkwardYou can follow Kensington Palace on Twitter or check the royal family’s official website.After Mario Testino was quietly sidelined by Kensington Palace in the wake of sexual harassment allegations, the highly coveted role of the next-generation royal photographer opened up. Step forward Alexi Lubomirski. Born in England and raised in Botswana, Mr. Lubomirski took the couple’s official engagement portrait last year and is known for his glossy shots in magazines like Elle and Vogue. He also, incidentally, happens to be a dashing European prince. Between commissions, His Serene Highness Alexi Lubomirski of Poland found time to pen a book: “Princely Advice for a Happy Life,” published in 2015.No. There was a public holiday to celebrate the wedding of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge in 2011, but William is the future king. Harry is not. One special exception will be made for the party-loving royal’s big day, though: The government announced in March that pubs, bars and other licensed premises can keep serving alcohol until 1 a.m., instead of the usual 11 p.m., on the nights of May 18 and May 19.Namibia, maybe! Travel and Leisure reports that “a source has confirmed” the couple will vacation in the southern African nation after the wedding.However, in a 2013 video for the beauty subscription service Birchbox, Meghan stated that a meal she once had at Chote Chitr in Bangkok (ranked No. 6,832 of 10,542 restaurants in Bangkok on TripAdvisor as of this writing) was “probably the best meal I ever had in my life.” So maybe she’ll want them to swing by there at some point.Get them the one thing they don’t have: nothing. In lieu of gifts, Meghan and Harry have asked those well-wishers eager to spend money on them to donate to charities. The couple have nominated seven organizations “reflecting their shared values.” On the royal family’s official website, guests and nonguests alike can find links to donate directly to the organizations. (In the lead-up to their wedding, William and Kate asked would-be gift givers to contribute to a general fund for 26 charities.)Here’s Meghan and Harry’s list:CHIVA (Children's H.I.V. Association): An organization that supports children and young people living with H.I.V. in U.K. and Ireland. Harry hosted members of CHIVA’s youth committee at Kensington Palace in October of 2016.Crisis: The U.K.’s national charity for homeless people. In January, Meghan and Harry’s nuptials became a source of local controversy when a politician in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead (the site of their wedding venue) called on police to “take immediate action” against homeless people living in the vicinity, in preparation for the May event. Crisis responded via written statement on April 1 criticizing the “criminalising of people simply because they are homeless.” On April 8, the couple named the charity to their list of recommended donation recipients.Myna Mahila Foundation: A health organization that aims to destigmatize menstruation, promote menstrual hygiene, and increase access to menstruation pads in India. Meghan visited the foundation headquarters in January of 2017; her experience there featured prominently in an op-ed about global perceptions of menstruation that she wrote for Time.com in March of that year.Scotty's Little Soldiers: A military charity that offers support to children and young people whose parents died while serving in the British armed forces. In May of 2017, Harry hosted children from the organization at a garden party at Buckingham Palace, where he spun plates.StreetGames: A network of neighborhood sports projects that aims to bring organized sports to underserved communities. On the couple’s first official visit to Wales, Harry encouraged young StreetGames participants to ambush Meghan in what her fleeting look of panic suggested was an impromptu group hug.Surfers Against Sewage: A marine conservation charity in Cornwall, where Harry has been known to surf. Cowabunga, mate.The Wilderness Foundation U.K.: A wildlife conservation charity with an emphasis on exposing young people to the outdoors. In September 2017, Harry traveled to Essex to observe an environmental education program run by the foundation, where he saw a woman throw water at a child (with the child’s permission).William. Harry was William’s best man. No one’s best man: the actress Priyanka Chopra, who has publicly declared she is not Meghan’s maid of honor, although they are friends.There will definitely be a rehearsal. William and Kate had multiple ones, right up until the night before their wedding. Whether there will be a formal dinner is less certain. E! News reported an anonymous insider’s claim that Harry and Meghan will have one, even though rehearsal dinners are more of an American tradition. Besides nodding to her American heritage, there may be another practical reason to host a pre-wedding dinner for friends and family: Lots of folks on Meghan’s side will be flying to the U.K. specifically for the event, and it could be their only chance to mingle as a group before the big day. (Meghan’s lack of a British home base may have inspired the royals to buck tradition before: She was the first fiancée allowed to spend Christmas with the family at Sandringham.)Almost certainly not. William and Kate didn’t have corgis at their wedding, nor did Charles at either of his. Even the corgi zealot Queen Elizabeth’s nuptials were dog-free, though Vanity Fair reported in a 2015 royal dog deep dive that one tagged along for her honeymoon.This could be a heartbreaking situation for the corgis who, to hear Harry and Meghan tell it, would love to marry Meghan themselves. (See Question 23.)And there is the simple fact that there just aren’t that many of them in the royal household anymore: The Daily Mail reported that the queen’s last "royal" corgi (descended from a corgi owned by her father), Willow, died on April 15th, 2018 at age 14. The monarch still has two dachshund-corgi mixes (“dorgis” named Vulcan and Candy), and one corgi (Whisper) she adopted after the death of its owner.And anyway, how many dogs is your grandmother allowed to bring to your wedding?It’s unlikely that Meghan will reactivate her old social media accounts in the near future. Currently, neither the queen nor members of Prince Charles’s immediate family publicly maintain individual accounts. Charles and Camilla’s official comings and goings are tracked by @ClarenceHouse on Twitter and Instagram. William, Kate and Harry are represented in the same spaces by @KensingtonRoyal, which has been incorporating Palace-sanctioned Meghan news into its feeds since the engagement was announced. (Unlike those three, Meghan does not appear in the @KensingtonRoyal avatars or descriptions on either platform, but perhaps that will change once the marriage is official.) The queen, Prince Philip and other members of the royal family are covered under @RoyalFamily on Twitter and @TheRoyalFamily on Instagram.If you’d told King Henry VIII that one day the sixth in line to the British throne would be marrying a star of USA Network’s “Suits,” he probably would have had questions: Does this mean England and Scotland have been united into a single state? What does “USA” stand for? How are you using “star” in that sentence? But he certainly would not have asked about her public social media profiles. All of which is to say, anything is possible.Prior to publicly announcing her and Harry’s relationship, Meghan was an enthusiastic user of social media, and The Daily Mail reported that he followed her on Instagram under a pseudonymous private account. (Though she deleted her Instagram in January of 2018, traces of it exist online as photos hosted on other sites. Her Twitter account half-lives in the form of cached page screenshots.) It’s possible that the royal family’s social media strategy will eventually shift from staid collective representation to more personalized individual coverage. Some extended members of the family already maintain their own accounts; Harry’s aunt Sarah Ferguson’s Twitter feed (@SarahTheDuchess, not @Fergie) makes robust use of hashtags.In the meantime, if you’d like to be directly responsible for Meghan’s social media presence, you might apply for a job in the royal household’s communications department. It recently sought an assistant “able to think on your feet” to begin work one month before Harry and Meghan’s wedding, at a starting salary of about $30,000.Highly likely. The Duchess of Cambridge changed into an ivory satin gown with a diamante belt and matching bolero (also by Sarah Burton) for her evening celebrations. Which designer Meghan might choose is, like her gown, as yet unknown.While some American airline companies now offer Wi-Fi on select transatlantic routes, British Airways has yet to jump on that bandwagon. So you may miss out on the first hourish of the wedding, unless you catch a favorable tailwind. (And, besides, the onboard reception can be seriously patchy at the best of times.) But fear not: There are sure to be endless televised reruns of key moments in the hours and weeks following the big day.Although rumors about the sexuality of certain British royal family members have circulated for centuries, the first of the lot to officially come out as gay was the queen's cousin, Ivor Mountbatten, in 2016. The royal family has also made efforts in recent years to show that Britain’s L.G.B.T.Q. community is not only accepted but supported by the monarchy. In 2016, Prince William became the first member of the royal family to appear on the cover of a gay magazine when he graced the pages of Attitude. And last year, in the Queen’s Speech, Her Majesty explicitly made reference to the community, saying, “My government will make further progress to tackle the gender pay gap and discrimination against people on the basis of their race, faith, gender, disability or sexual orientation.”Yes. Once Harry and Meghan tie the knot, she will take his title (see Question 35) and his last name (Question 36), which is followed by an H.R.H. In her case, that stands for Her Royal Highness.As explained in Question 21, Meghan’s engagement ring features a large central diamond flanked by two smaller stones that belonged to Princess Diana. What else (if anything) of Diana’s she might wear on the big day remains to be seen.She married Mike Ross in a two-hour season finale on April 25, and she’s never coming back.Unlike the wedding ceremony, the receptions (one thrown by the queen, the other by Prince Charles) will not be televised, leaving the public to conjecture about the colors and shades of various items present.William and Kate’s ceremony was pretty much white, and white, and white all over (though the groom wore a red tunic in the military dress of an Irish Guards officer). The most prominent splashes of color were the red, white and blue ribbons and bows bedecking the Aston Martin the couple drove to Prince Charles’s home following their official reception. The car’s back bumper was festooned with charmingly cheesy “C” and “W” balloons (for Catherine and William) in the striking color palette of black, magenta, orange, lime and sky blue. The vehicle was reportedly decorated by Prince Harry.YES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Almost certainly. The Duchess of Cambridge often wears crowns and tiaras owned by her late mother-in-law, including the Cambridge Lover's Knot tiara, given to Princess Diana as a wedding gift from the queen. Once Meghan is married, it is highly likely that she too will receive access to the royal collection of jewels.He is 6-foot-1, or 1.86 meters tall. (William is a little over 6-foot-2, or 1.91 meters.)That’s a really good question. For anyone other than the queen or an heir to the throne (see the order of succession in Question 24), it is unlikely that there would be a state funeral or that the upcoming royal wedding would be postponed; far too much work and planning has gone into the event. That said, any royal’s passing would be mourned by the nation, and likely marked with the Union flag at half mast over Buckingham Palace. The queen’s death would be a different matter: The Guardian published a fascinating article last year about “Operation London Bridge” — the official plan in place for her passing.Yes. Any children born to Prince Harry will bump his uncle Andrew — Charles’s brother, currently seventh in line for the throne, after Harry — further down the order of succession. And thanks to an amendment passed in 2011, elder daughters will not lose their positions to sons born later. (The change is already affecting William’s children; it’s why Princess Charlotte remains fourth in line to the throne after big brother George and Prince Louis slid in at No. 5.) Bear in mind that any children eventually born to George, Charlotte or Louis will knock Harry (and his kids) even further from the top spot.Click on the questions, Karen!Depends on what you consider fun, really. The wedding service will take about an hour and probably won’t be a barrel of laughs. Officially, however, the royal family enjoys fun. A statement about the wedding from a royal secretary said that “the crowds that have turned out in Nottingham, Cardiff, Brixton, Edinburgh, Birmingham, Belfast, Bath and elsewhere have given Ms. Markle a welcome to the United Kingdom marked by warmth, enthusiasm and a real sense of fun.” Sounds fun!Meghan’s mother, Doria Ragland, has met Harry; they were photographed together (with Meghan) at the 2017 Invictus Games in Toronto. According to an official palace statement, Doria and Meghan’s father, Thomas Markle, will meet the rest of the royal family, including the queen, the week of the wedding. Harry has not yet met his future father-in-law in person. (The two spoke by phone before the engagement was announced.)Yes. Diana’s sister Lady Jane Fellowes will perform a reading as part of the ceremony. Per an official statement, Harry is “keen to involve his mother’s family in his wedding,” and he and Meghan “both feel honoured that Lady Jane will be representing her family and helping to celebrate the memory of the late Princess on the wedding day.” Diana’s brother Charles and her sister Sarah (who dated Prince Charles before Diana) will also be in attendance as guests.There will be room for 6,000 cars (or motorcycles) in a special “car parking area” in Windsor, but you must book your spot in advance. And pay £30! (A little over $40!!!)Please send us your question using this form. We will contact you by email if we post an answer.Thank you for your question! We’ll take a look at it soon.Edited by Anya Strzemien and Bonnie Wertheim. Design and production by Tracy Ma and Umi Syam. Photo and illustration credits: Arthur Edwards/Getty Images (Prince Harry), Getty Images (Pembroke Welsh corgi); Kirsty Wigglesworth/Getty Images (Queen Elizabeth II, Victoria Beckham), Chris Jackson/Getty Images (Meghan Markle, Prince Charles, Prince William, Prince George, Prince Louis), The Duchess of Cambridge/Getty Images (Princess Charlotte), Andrew Parsons/Getty Images (Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge), Ian Mcilgorm/AFP/Getty Images (Princess Beatrice), Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images (Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall), Dylan Martinez/Getty Images; Pascal (Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge), Le Segretain/Getty Images (Princess Maxima), Dan Kitwood/Getty Images (Naomi Campbell); photo illustration by The New York Times; Yui Mok/Getty Images (Prince Phillip); photo illustration by The New York Times; Billy Farrell/Getty Images (Meghan and Trevor); photo illustration by The New York Times; Chris Ratcliffe/Getty Images (Harry and Chelsy); photo illustration by The New York Times; Chris Jackson/Getty Images (Harry and Ellie); photo illustration by The New York Times; Glyn Kirk/Getty Images (Harry and Cressida); illustration by Tracy Ma/The New York Times (birds, confetti, ribbons, corgi), GifCities/Internet Archive (flags, rabbits, squirrels, fireworks, clapping hands, cat, bird with invitation, flowers, wedding bells) Correction   May 8 2018 An earlier version of this F.A.Q. misstated the number of guests who would sit in St. George's Chapel.That number is about 600, not 1,200. The F.A.Q. also misstated the length of the train on Kate Middleton's wedding gown. It was nine feet long, not 25. And, finally (forgive us!), the F.A.Q. misstated the branch of Christianity to which Meghan Markle is converting. It is Anglicanism, not Anglicism. 