AdvertisementSupported byA look at our latest featured couples.Alicia Hunt Ciccone and William Benjamin Thomas were married April 14 at the Liberty Warehouse, an events space in Brooklyn. Judge Daryl L. Moore of the 333rd District Court in Harris County, Tex., officiated, with blessings from the Rev. Anthony Andreassi, a Roman Catholic priest.Ms. Ciccone, 28, works in Houston as a consultant at Bain & Company, the Boston management consulting firm, for which she primarily advises energy companies and other industrial businesses. She graduated summa cum laude from Amherst College, and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.The bride is the daughter of Barbara Hunt Ciccone and Dr. Joseph Ciccone of Brooklyn. The bride’s father is a psychiatrist in private practice in Brooklyn. Her mother is a clinical psychologist, also in private practice in Brooklyn.Mr. Thomas, 33, is a lawyer at McDowell Hetherington, a law firm based in Houston, where he focuses on energy and business litigation. He graduated summa cum laude from Texas Christian University and received a law degree, magna cum laude, from Baylor. The groom served six years in the Texas Army National Guard, deploying to Baghdad as a field artillery officer.He is the son of Barbara C. Thomas and William R. Thomas of Austin, Tex. The groom’s mother retired as a teacher at Highland Park Elementary School in Austin. His father retired as an owner of Sonic Drive-In franchises in the Austin and San Antonio areas.The groom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.The couple met on a blind date in Houston in 2014.Jane-Coleman Harbison and Michael Anthony Cottone were married April 14 at the Church of the Assumption in Nashville. The Rev. Gladstone Stevens, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 29, is a historic preservation specialist with the Tennessee Historical Commission in Nashville. She graduated from Denison University in Granville, Ohio, and received a master’s degree in history from McGill University in Montreal, where she attended as a Fulbright scholar. She also received a master’s degree in public humanities from Brown.She is a daughter of Patricia B. Harbison and William L. Harbison of Nashville. The bride’s father is a partner with the law firm Sherrard, Roe, Voigt and Harbison in Nashville and a former president of the Tennessee Bar Association. Her mother is a breeder of championship Lakeland Terriers in Nashville.The bride’s paternal grandfather, the late William J. Harbison, was a chief justice of the Tennessee Supreme Court from 1980 to 1982 and from 1987 to 1989.The groom, 28, is a lawyer at Bass, Berry and Sims, a Nashville law firm, where he practices state and local tax litigation. He graduated from Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, Tenn., and received a law degree from the University of Tennessee.He is a son of Juliann M. Cottone of Fairview, Tenn., and the late Daniel J. Cottone. The groom’s mother is an art teacher at the Fairview Elementary School. His father was the owner and operator of a heating and air-conditioning business that was also in Fairview.The couple met in 2014 at the wedding of the bride’s brother.Sara Michelle Hokin and Dr. Jonah Nathaniel Rubin are to be married April 15 at the Palmer House Chicago, a hotel. Rabbi David Wolkenfeld is to officiate.The bride, 33, is the national director of operations for Game On! Sports 4 Girls, a Chicago-based organization that focuses on empowering girls through sports. She graduated from the University of Tampa in Florida.She is a daughter of Sheri S. Hokin and Gary S. Hokin of Deerfield, Ill. Her father is a financial adviser at Hokin Investment Advisors in Northbrook, Ill. Her mother is an insurance broker for Hokin Sternberg Insurance Services in Deerfield, Ill.The groom, 35, is a gastroenterology fellow at the University of Maryland Medical Center in Baltimore. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master’s degree in medical sciences at Boston University, from which he also received a medical degree.He is a son of Tamara L. Rubin and Joel D. Rubin of Chicago. His mother retired as a teacher at Romona Elementary School in Wilmette, Ill. His father is a lawyer at Seyfarth Shaw, a firm based in Chicago.The couple met in November 2015 in Chicago through the dating app JSwipe.Courtney Anne Walker and Dr. Bobby Allen Garcia were married April 14 in San Juan Capistrano, Calif. The Rev. Domingo Romero, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Mission Basilica San Juan Capistrano.Mrs. Garcia, 33, works in Newport Beach, Calif., as a senior vice president for portfolio management at the Pacific Investment Management Company, an investment management firm in Newport Beach. She graduated from Columbia and received a master’s degree in financial engineering from the University of California, Berkeley.The bride is a daughter of Michele S. Walker and John F. Walker of Collegeville, Pa. The bride’s father is the chief operating officer of PharmScript, a pharmacy chain based in Somerset, N.J. Her mother is a clinical consultant pharmacist working with PharmScript.The groom, 33, is a fellow in female pelvic medicine and reconstructive surgery at Louisiana State University in New Orleans. He graduated from Yale and received a medical degree from the University of Texas Southwestern.Dr. Garcia is the son of Mary Ellen Garcia and Robert A. Garcia of McAllen, Tex. The groom’s mother retired as a preschool teacher at Cavazos Elementary School in Edinburg, Tex. His father is a physical education teacher and football coach at Barrientes Middle School in Edinburg.The couple met in 2016 through the League, a dating app.Margaret Lindsey Kempner and Ian Barton McLean were married April 14 at the Beverly Hills Hotel in Beverly Hills, Calif. The Rev. Lee Lasko, a minister ordained by the Unity West Church of Santa Monica, officiated.The bride, 31, who goes by Meggie, is a founder of Kempner, a women’s fashion brand based in New York. The bride also owns Meggie Kempner Design, and interior design company in New York. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.She is a daughter of Cynthia H. Kempner and James L. Kempner of New York. The bride’s father is the president of LSH Partners, an independent boutique investment bank in New York.The bride’s paternal grandmother, the late Nan Kempner, was a New York socialite.The groom, 33, works in New York as a senior vice president of Oaktree Capital Management, an alternative investment management firm based in Los Angeles. He graduated from Harvard.He is a son of Lindsay B. McLean and Stuart T. McLean of Cincinnati. The groom’s mother is a historian at the Indian Hill Historical Society in Indian Hill, Ohio. His father retired as a Medicare sales representative in the Cincinnati office of Humana, a health insurance company based in Louisville, Ky. He is an independent health insurance agent in Cincinnati.The couple met in 2013 through a mutual friend at the Breakers Hotel in Palm Beach, Fla.Rebecca Lynne Weiler and Dr. Bret Kenneth Sohn were married April 14 at Disney’s Wedding Pavilion, an events space in Orlando, Fla. Rabbi Karen Allen officiated.The bride, 34, is a mental health and career counselor in private practice in New York and Nashville. She primarily works with patients dealing with career changes, career transitions and depression. She is also a singer, and has performed at Carnegie Hall as part of the choir Essential Voices USA. She graduated from State University of New York at Oneonta and received a master’s degree in counseling from Fordham.The bride is a daughter of Robert K. Weiler of Syracuse and the late Andrea B. Weiler. The bride’s father is a law partner and bankruptcy attorney for the Syracuse law firm Bousquet Holstein. Her late mother was a social worker in Syracuse.The groom, 36, is a physician and a fellow in the department of rheumatology at Vanderbilt. He graduated cum laude from St. George’s University School of Medicine in St. George’s, Grenada, and received a master’s degree in immunology from New York Medical College.Dr. Sohn is a son of Nancy R. Sohn and Stephen E. Sohn of Scarsdale, N.Y. His parents both work in Scarsdale. His mother is the president and chief executive officer of a market research company bearing her name. His father is the owner of a martial arts and fitness center bearing his name.The couple met in 2015 at a wine bar in Gotham West Market in New York.Lisa Helene Miller and Drew Joseph Michael Bradylyons were married April 9 at the Thurgood Marshall United States Court House in New York. Judge Edgardo Ramos of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, officiated. The bride previously served as a law clerk for Judge Ramos in 2013 and 2014.Ms. Miller, 34, works in Miami as an assistant attorney at the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of Florida. She graduated cum laude from Cornell and received a law degree from the University of Virginia.The bride is a daughter of Linda C. DeMarco Miller and Dr. Randolph A. Miller of Brentwood, Tenn. The bride’s father is a professor of biomedical informatics at Vanderbilt. He is also an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine. Her mother is an assistant principal at Martin Luther King Jr. Academic Magnet High School in Nashville.Mr. Bradylyons, also 34, is a prosecutor for the fraud section of the criminal division of the United States Department of Justice in Miami, where he works primarily with cases involving health care fraud. He graduated from Georgetown. He received a law degree from the University of Michigan.The groom is the son of Kathleen Brady and Michael J. Lyons of Cambridge, Mass. His mother, a psychiatrist, is the director of Consultation Liaison Psychiatry for the Department of Public Health at Tewksbury Hospital in Tewksbury, Mass. His father is a professor in the Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences at Boston University.The couple met in 2009 while working at Mayer Brown, a law firm in Manhattan.Portia Jamel Brown and Chaz Christian Clark were married April 14 at the Sugarboo Farms, a private estate in Blairsville, Ga. Ayan Das, a friend of the family who was ordained through the American Fellowship Church, officiated.The bride, 32, works in Atlanta as an account executive, in advertising sales, for Google. She graduated from Stanford and received a master’s degree in business analytics from N.Y.U.She is the daughter of Andree Y. Glenn of Memphis and Dr. James W. Brown of San Antonio. The bride’s father is a dentist in private practice in San Antonio, who achieved the rank of lieutenant in the United States Navy. Her mother is the owner of Mustard Seed Studio, a sewing shop in Memphis.She is the stepdaughter of Stephanie Brown and Dr. Steve Gadbois.The groom, 34, is a software engineer in Atlanta at BlueFletch, where he works on mobile apps. He graduated from Morehouse College in Atlanta.He is a son of the late Valerie M. Manns of Honolulu and the late Benjamin K. Clark, who lived in Brooklyn. The groom’s mother was a nurse. His father was a corporate chef in Manhattan.The couple met in 2014 on Tinder.Dr. Priya Jitendra Ghelani and Dr. Shawn Laxmikant Shah were married April 14 at the Omni Mandalay Hotel at Las Colinas in Irving, Tex. Mamta Kapadia, a Hindu priest, officiated.Dr. Ghelani, 29, is a fourth-year chief resident at the Jacobi/Montefiore Emergency Medicine Residency Program in the Bronx. She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin and received a medical degree from Texas College of Osteopathic Medicine in Fort Worth.She is a daughter of Daksha J. Ghelani and Jitendra K. Ghelani of Richardson, Tex. The bride’s father retired as an electronic engineer from the Dallas location of the Raytheon Company, which specializes in defense, civil government and cybersecurity solutions. Her mother is a medical coding specialist at Parkland Hospital in Dallas.Dr. Shah, 31, is a second-year gastroenterology and hepatology fellow at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He graduated magna cum laude with a degree in microbiology and immunology as well as economics from the University of Miami, and received a medical degree from Florida State University.He is a son of Kirtida L. Shah and Lax H. Shah of Pembroke Pines, Fla. The groom’s mother is a saleswoman at Bombay Bazaar, an apparel wholesaler in Miami, which his father owns.The couple met in July 2013 at a Jain Family Institute conference in Detroit, and later that summer had their first date at a Thai restaurant in Boston. Dr. Ghelani was doing a rotation nearby at Boston Medical Center at the time, while Dr. Shah drove down from Lebanon, N.H., where he was doing a residency at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center.Diana Catherine Banks and Emile Christopher Thompson were married April 14 at St. Augustine Catholic Church in Washington. The Rev. Robert Boxie, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.Ms. Banks, 36, is a senior counsel at the American Bankers Association in Washington. She graduated from Stanford University and received a law degree from Harvard. She was previously a deputy assistant secretary of defense during the Obama administration.She is the daughter of Yon N. Banks and William C. Banks of Columbus, Ga. The bride’s father retired from the Army, having achieved the rank of sergeant first class at Fort Benning, Ga. Her mother, who is retired, worked as a custodian at the Swift Denim factory, which manufactured denim shirts and jeans in Columbus.Mr. Thompson, 34, works in Washington as an assistant United States attorney for the District of Columbia. He graduated from Morehouse College in Atlanta and received a law degree from Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, N.C.He is a son of Marian C. Thompson and Charles E. Thompson of Durham, N.C. The groom’s mother serves on the board of trustees of Howard University in Washington. His father, who is retired, was a mortgage broker for several independent brokerage companies in North Carolina.The couple met in 2015 on Memorial Day at a barbecue hosted by mutual friends.Whitney Oudin Flesher and David Henry Tutor were married April 14 at Bethesda-by-the-Sea, a church in Palm Beach, Fla. The Rev. James R. Harlan, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 29, is an M.B.A. candidate at N.Y.U. In September, she is to join the Estée Lauder Companies, a cosmetics manufacturer with headquarters in New York, as part of a leadership development program. She graduated from Tulane and is a member of the Susan G. Komen Greater New York City’s Young Professionals Committee, a philanthropic group.She is the daughter of Dora J. Flesher and Gregory W. Flesher of Little Rock, Ark. The bride’s father is a partner of Frost, an accounting firm there. He is also the president of the George W. Donaghey Foundation, which provides scholarship support to the University of Arkansas at Little Rock. The bride’s mother is the volunteer chief financial officer of Positive Atmosphere Reaches Kids, a nonprofit youth organization in Little Rock. She is also the president of the board of the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra Foundation.The groom, 34, works in New York as a counsel in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement. He graduated with honors from Wesleyan University and received a law degree from Columbia, where he was a Hamilton fellow.He is the son of Maxine S. Tutor and Gerald W. Tutor of Newton, Mass. The groom’s mother retired as a psychiatric nurse practitioner in the Boston area. His father retired as a lawyer in private practice in Newton.The couple’s first date was in 2014 at Bell Book and Candle, a restaurant in New York.Kiyomi Lillian Sakai Burchill and Joseph Daniel Couk were married April 14 at Beatnik Studios, an art gallery and event space in Sacramento. Darrell Steinberg, the mayor of Sacramento, officiated.Ms. Burchill, 34, is the deputy secretary for legislative affairs at the California Health and Human Services Agency in Sacramento. She graduated with distinction from Stanford and received a master’s degree in public administration from the University of Southern California.She is a daughter of Naomi J. Sakai and Jim W. Burchill of Davis, Calif. The bride’s father retired as the president and chief executive of a public affairs firm bearing his name. Her mother retired as an administrator and a counselor in the counseling and psychological services department at the University of California, Davis.Mr. Couk, also 34, is an information technology consultant in the Sacramento office of KPMG, the auditing, accounting and consulting firm. He graduated from California State University, Chico.He is a son of Jane E. Couk and Dr. Richard S. Couk of Chico. The groom’s mother manages his father’s private dental practice there.The couple never ran into each other during the six months in 2014 that they lived only three doors away from one another. They met at a local crowded music venue a year after she moved.Jennifer Young Zeckendorf and Michael Benjamin Tannenbaum were married April 14 at the Union Club of the City of New York, a private club. Rabbi Dr. Ronald Sobel officiated.Ms. Zeckendorf, 29, is a junior architecture professional in the San Francisco office of the architecture firm Skidmore Owings & Merrill, where she primarily works on residential buildings. She graduated from Yale and received a master’s degree in architecture from Columbia.The bride is the daughter of Constance H. Zeckendorf of East Hampton, N.Y., and Arthur W. Zeckendorf of New York. The bride’s father is a co-chairman of Zeckendorf Development, a real estate developer there, and Terra Holdings, a company that owns and operates Brown Harris Stevens and Halstead Property, two New York residential brokerage companies. Her mother retired as a real estate agent in New York.Mr. Tannenbaum, 30, is the chief financial officer of Brex, a financial technology and credit card company in San Francisco. He graduated summa cum laude from Columbia.The groom is the son of Sara L. Goodman of Sudbury, Mass., and Steven N. Tannenbaum of Wellesley, Mass. The groom’s mother is a property accountant for The Bulfinch Companies, a real estate firm in Needham, Mass. The groom’s father is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of Tedor Pharmaceutical in Cumberland, R.I. The groom is the stepson of Wendy C. Tannenbaum and Peter B. Goodman.The couple met at a mutual friend’s Halloween party in 2014.Jennifer Anne Crutchfield and Brian Duncan Worth were married April 14 at First Presbyterian Church in San Antonio. The Rev. Dr. Bob Fuller, a Presbyterian minister officiated, with the Rev. Dr. Scot Sherman, a minister with the Reformed Church of America, taking part in the ceremony.Mrs. Worth, 34, was until March a lead on the sustainability and social impact team at Adobe in San Francisco. She graduated from the University of Virginia, from which she also received an M.B.A. She also received a master’s degree in economic development from Boston University.She is the daughter of Jana Heischman Crutchfield and William G. Crutchfield Jr., both of Charlottesville, Va.Mr. Worth, 37, was until April 6 a developer of computer software at the Mountain View, Calif., office of Addepar, a financial technology firm. He graduated from Stanford.He is a son of Jane Smith Worth and James C. Worth of San Antonio.The couple met in February 2017 through the League, a dating app. The bride and groom decided to leave their jobs to travel around the world for at least six months after the wedding.Marianne Eagan and Kevin Thomas Burrows were married April 14 at the Ebell of Los Angeles, an events space. Donald Voogd, a cousin of the groom who is a Universal Life Church minister, officiated.The bride and groom, both 29, met at Harvard, where they each graduated.Ms. Burrows is the director of operations at Partnership for Health Analytic Research, a health services consulting firm in Beverly Hills, Calif. She also received a master’s degree in international health policy from the London School of Economics and Political Science.The bride is a daughter of Thomas V. Eagan and Judith A. Eagan of Coral Gables, Fla. The bride’s father works in Miami as a partner with Squire Patton Boggs, a law firm based in Cleveland. He is also a deacon at the Church of the Epiphany in Miami. Her mother is a middle school mathematics teacher at Epiphany Catholic School.Mr. Burrows is a screenwriter in Los Angeles. He is a creator of the animated web series “Gentlemen Lobsters” and a writer of the film “Eggplant Emoji,” which is to be released by Netflix. He also received an M.B.A. from Stanford.The groom is a son of Eric A. Burrows of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Linda S. Burrows of Solvang, Calif. The groom’s father is a history teacher at Mountain Pointe High School in Phoenix. The groom’s mother previously served as a president of both the Santa Ynez Valley Foundation, a social services organization, and the Solvang Arts and Music Foundation, a provider of music education programs.Advertisement