AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesNew TV shows, museum openings, film releases and concerts — it’s a lot to keep track of. Let us help you. For the week of April 8, seven events in New York and elsewhere not to be missed:April 4-June 6; bronxarts.org.Whether it’s reacting against patriarchy, pixelation, or the oppressive austerities of midcentury Minimalism, the use of crafty patterns in contemporary visual art has always had a political charge. But several of the 26 artists in this exhibition — jointly organized by El Museo del Barrio, the Hostos Center for the Arts & Culture and the Bronx Council on the Arts — make those politics even more explicit by combining decorative motifs with images of the body.The Peruvian-born photographer Cecilia Paredes, most notably, and the Trinidadian artist Marlon Griffith, who started out as a Carnival designer, make alluring, disorienting color photos of patterns painted directly on the skin. And Keisha Scarville, who teaches at the International Center of Photography, alters copies of her father’s 1955 Guyanese passport photos with more or less violent elements of collage. WILL HEINRICHApril 7; hbo.com.What did Joe Paterno know, and when? And why didn’t he do more to stop it? Those questions loom with escalating alarm over Barry Levinson’s “Paterno,” which rides the fall from grace of the revered Penn State football coach — the winningest in college history — during the sexual abuse scandal surrounding Jerry Sandusky, a longtime assistant coach.In “Paterno” on HBO, Al Pacino plays the coach like a wounded bull, at once bewildered by his implication in the sordid events and defiantly defensive that his own actions were sufficient as investigators unmask Sandusky’s crimes against young boys, some of which took place in the university’s locker-room showers. (Sandusky was found guilty on 45 counts; court documents released in 2016 suggested that Paterno knew of Sandusky’s abuse as far back as 1976.)Riley Keough is the reporter Sara Gamin, who, at 24, won a Pulitzer Prize for breaking open the story for The Patriot-News, a daily paper serving the Harrisburg area, and received death threats for her role in toppling a titan. The drama can also be seen on the channel’s streaming platforms. KATHRYN SHATTUCKApril 8-12; livenation.com.No one rapped like Rakim in his late-’80s heyday — ultra-focused, preternaturally cool, somersaulting through complex rhyme patterns like it was nothing. And while times have changed since then, the four albums that he recorded as a duo with the D.J. Eric B. between 1987 and 1992 remain significant touchstones for a certain strain of hip-hop lyricism. You can hear echoes of Rakim’s revolutionary style in Kendrick Lamar’s precisely stacked syllables and Jay-Z’s authoritative tone, among others.Eric B. and Rakim split and stayed on separate paths until last July, when they played a one-time reunion show at the Apollo Theater. The good will from that night has extended into the new year, and this week they begin their first tour as a duo in many years, with shows in Boston (April 8), New York (Irving Plaza, April 9-10) and Philadelphia (April 11). Rap fans have mourned too many great artists gone before their time lately; these shows are a golden opportunity to celebrate two originators who are still around to hear the applause. SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSONApril 10-15, joyce.org.Ballet Hispánico delivers a literary pas de deux this season with two premieres that draw on the writings of Federico García Lorca. In “Espíritus Gemelos,” or “Twin Spirits,” by the choreographer Gustavo Ramírez Sansano, the focus is on the writer’s relationship with the artist Salvador Dalí. The pair met in 1923; Mr. Sansano finds inspiration in the seductive correspondence they left behind.For his latest, “Waiting for Pepe,” the choreographer Carlos Pons Guerra delves into Lorca’s 1936 play “The House of Bernarda Alba,” in order to explore his own experiences as a young gay man growing up in Spain. Lorca’s play gave him the courage to stand up for himself; in his dance, he incorporates the theatricality of Latin films and telenovelas. And returning to the repertory is Annabelle Lopez Ochoa’s passionate “Línea Recta.” Set to a guitar score by Eric Vaarzon Morel, it places a tactile twist on the art of traditional flamenco: The dancers touch. GIA KOURLASApril 8, 10 and 12; parlancechamberconcerts.org.Ludwig van Beethoven’s 16 string quartets are a cornerstone of the chamber music repertory, and those in the New York area this week will have three opportunities to hear them performed by very different ensembles.On Sunday, the hipsterish Danish String Quartet — which has its own line of craft beer, but also renders joyfully impeccable interpretations of standard repertoire — will play an all-Beethoven program of works from the composer’s early (Op. 18, No. 3), middle (Op. 59, No. 1), and late periods (the astounding Op. 131) at the West Side Presbyterian Church in Ridgewood, N.J.The refined, Berlin-based Artemis Quartet will also perform Op. 18, No. 3 alongside works by Bartók and Schumann at Zankel Hall on Tuesday. And at Alice Tully Hall on Thursday, the august Juilliard Quartet, which has been playing Beethoven for more than seventy years, pairs two of the composer’s quartets with James MacMillan’s haunting String Quartet No. 2. WILLIAM ROBINApril 11 to May 6; 59e59.org.The first time that the play “We Live By the Sea” arrived in New York, for a too-brief downtown run as part of the Fringe Encore Series in 2016, I was warned to bring tissues. That’s excellent advice to keep in mind for the return of this tender, comical, thoroughly enchanting show, kicking off the Brits Off Broadway festival at 59E59 Theaters with performances starting Wednesday, April 11.Devised by the London company Patch of Blue, the play is the story of Katy, a 15-year-old on the autism spectrum; her devoted best friend, an imaginary dog named Paul Williams; her older sister, Hannah, who’s floundering as Katy’s guardian; and Ryan, a fellow teenager new to their seaside town.Told with live music and simple but potent theatrical magic, it’s not immersive theater, yet the audience is submerged into Katy’s world, where our every sense is heightened. So, from the very start, are our sympathy and affection for this lonely girl, who tells herself stories in which she’s a princess and her dead father is the king. This is ultimately a play about the balm of friendship, and there’s not a whiff of sappiness or condescension to it. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHESamazon.com.By outward appearances, Amrita, Ritu and Dipti are thoroughly modern millennials — vivacious, educated and independent, save for one important fact. According to Indian tradition, it’s time to find a husband. Which even in the 21st century still often means an arranged marriage.The documentary “A Suitable Girl,” now on Amazon and iTunes, trails these women and their increasingly anxious families across four years as they try, try, try to find an acceptable spouse. Dreams and desires are shelved as they mold themselves into the marrying kind: Urban lifestyles in Mumbai and Delhi are traded for rural towns or faraway lands; graduate degrees and hard-won jobs at global corporations are abandoned for the sake of a partner’s career. The women are paraded before potential mates at the equivalent of cattle calls, their desirable traits — long hair, beautiful eyes, slim figures, fair skin and an aptitude in the kitchen — marketed in matrimonial ads and online matchmaking profiles. Meanwhile, the men’s primary selling point is wealth.Opening a window onto a cultural custom many Westerners find baffling, the Indian-American filmmakers Sarita Khurana and Smriti Mundhra stirringly chronicle this often heart-rending, occasionally humorous rite of passage without judgment. “A Suitable Girl” won the Albert Maysles Award for Best New Documentary Director at the 2017 Tribeca Film Festival. KATHRYN SHATTUCKAdvertisement