AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew R. ChowMorgan Freeman once again lends gravitas to a penguin documentary. And Neil Young turns to acting in a new movie by Daryl Hannah. MARCH OF THE PENGUINS 2: THE NEXT STEP on Hulu. Moviegoers flocked to theaters in 2005 to see penguins flock across the tundra; the $8 million documentary made $127 million worldwide. There’s no big-screen release for this sequel, but audiences can still watch these lovable flippered birds trek across “unforgiving yet mesmerizing landscapes,” as Morgan Freeman intones. Once again, the focus is on the relationship between penguin fathers and their young — dads must cradle the eggs, watch the babies while the moms are out gathering food, and protect them from carrion birds and bitter storms.PARADOX on Netflix. Neil Young is an Oscar nominee, but not for his work on camera — his song in Jonathan Demme’s “Philadelphia” was recognized in 1994. He has acted sparingly over the years, though, and returns to the trade in this new film written and directed by Daryl Hannah. The film follows a band of outlaws hiding in the mountains, with Mr. Young playing the man in the black hat. He also provides original music along with the band Promise of the Real, which includes Willie Nelson’s sons.ROXANNE ROXANNE on Netflix. Before Cardi B, before Missy Elliott, before Queen Latifah, there was Roxanne Shante. In 1984, the M.C. recorded “Roxanne’s Revenge” when she was 14 and living in Queens. But while the song took off like a rocket on boomboxes across the country, her career did not. This biopic traces her rise and stagnation, as she was taken advantage of by managers and other men in the music industry. “I was actually able to sit back and say, ‘Wow, something good came out of all of this,’” Ms. Shante said in a Times interview about the film, which stars Chanté Adams and also includes performances by Mahershala Ali and Nia Long.GAME OVER, MAN! on Netflix. A couple of years ago Jordan Peele and Keegan-Michael Key made the leap from a Comedy Central half-hour to a full-length action movie, with “Keanu.” Blake Anderson, Adam DeVine and Anders Holm, from “Workaholics,” make the same jump here, swapping drab office attire for bloody tuxedos. Playing the help at a hotel, they spring into action when terrorists storm the building and take hostages.N.C.A.A. MEN’S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Eight teams face-off tonight. In the most intriguing matchup, Duke, led by  Grayson Allen, will meet the resilient and defensively stingy Syracuse, an 11-seed. They tip off at 9:37 p.m. on CBS.Advertisement