AdvertisementSupported byOn BeautyBy Kari MolvarGoing makeup-free can be a liberating concept until you’re confronted with bad lighting, skin flare-ups or bouts of redness. In those times, getting by on moisturizer alone can be a challenge. Fortunately, a new breed of hybrid beauty product has emerged to subtly minimize imperfections without requiring layers of foundation or heavy powders.Behold the modern primer. Of course, these fluids have been around for decades, employed as a first step to even out skin tone, fill in pores and smooth the surface of your face to prep it for foundation. But the formulas of the past were light on any lasting benefits, and often left a white-ish cast on the complexion.The latest iterations, however, have smart technology — soft-focus filters, breathable textures — and skin-care-level ingredients, making them function as highlighter, serum and moisturizer in one tube. In fact, you might find that they flatter your complexion well enough that you can wear them alone — as a base, in lieu of makeup — and not regret that decision later.“The new formulas have skin-enhancing qualities, so they give you the most natural of glows,” says New York City-based makeup artist Hannah Murray, who is partial to Dr. Barbara Sturm’s Glow Drops ($145), a milky lotion that contains active natural ingredients (including anti-inflammatory purslane) and mineral pigments to illuminate and hydrate dull skin. Tatcha’s The Silk Canvas ($52) is inspired by the traditional geisha ritual of pressing melted bintsuke (Japanese wax) over the face to protect it from makeup; this modern spin utilizes botanicals to fend off the damaging effects of pollution. Charlotte Tilbury’s Brightening Youth Glow ($55), meanwhile, pairs trendy wellness ingredients, like revitalizing chlorella and nourishing vitamin B, with high-tech pearlized particles for a creamy gel that “instantly blurs, evens imperfections and corrects redness,” Tilbury explains. When worn on its own, she finds, the primer gives skin a “gorgeous” effect.Rather than quick fixes, many of today’s primers are formulated with long-term anti-aging in mind (and have price tags that rival those of expensive creams). La Prairie’s Cellular Radiance Perfecting Fluide Pure Gold ($550), for example, pairs collagen-boosting peptides with finely milled flecks of gold to scatter light across the face while also firming it over time. Or consider Sisley-Paris’s Instant Éclat ($90): Its plant extracts replenish skin’s natural “water cushion” for a plumped result that lasts after the soft-pink lotion has melted into your skin.Still, if dryness is an issue, it’s best to apply these primers over traditional moisturizers. Murray often works them in with a mini-massage technique. “I like to apply with my fingers, smoothing from the center of the face outward and then patting in with the palms of my hands,” she says, adding that this helps “stimulate blood flow and plump the skin.” Will you still need a touch of concealer to cover up under-eye circles or a blemish? Perhaps, but you will need far less. And that can translate into a more realistic radiance. As Murray says, it’s always better to take “a light hand when it comes to the skin.”Advertisement