AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkTeachers and students, please know that this week, those of us who create this feature feel extra disappointed that we could not choose all of what you posted.We often leave notes for one another as we compile each edition, and this week our staff member Natalie Proulx wrote:The comments this week were great. Almost every one was very long and well written. They used evidence, referenced personal experience, connected to current events and often weighed both sides of an issue. They were also thoughtful and earnest, as they always are, but maybe even more thoughtful this week. It was very hard to pick the best, and I feel bad that a lot of good ones didn’t get in here — but we have to keep this post from being 30,000 words long.We predicted that our question about teachers and guns would bring in many new commenters, and it did. Thanks and welcome to new students from Burlington, Vt.; Caruthers, Calif.; Cinnaminson, N.J.; Danvers, Mass.; Providence, R.I.; and Australia and Japan. Please know that your voices are especially important on issues like this one.Enjoy the collection, and don’t worry if yours wasn’t chosen this time — just continue to post, because we love reading what you have to say.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted._________Our prompt “Should Teachers Be Armed With Guns?” brought in by far the most comments from students this week — in fact, they were still coming in as we compiled this page.These three comments, from Sam, Sarafina and LKD, received “Readers’ Picks” designations:Sam from Burlington thinks an armed authority figure would act as a deterrent:I believe that someone with authority should be armed on school grounds at all times. Whether that person is a teacher or a police officer there should be someone there to defend the future of America. The amount of teachers or officers armed should increase for the number of students within the school. Arming teachers would act more as a precaution than anything else, if a student is aware there are weapons on school grounds the chance of them shooting up a school would decrease. If I knew there were trained adults concealing weapons at my school I would feel very safe. I would know that in the chance there was an active shooter in my school, I wouldn’t be left defenseless.Sarafina Alamurda disagrees, and thinks teachers should teach:Teachers should not be armed with guns. Guns are the reason that school shootings were able to take place and adding more guns to schools would not help save lives. Trump said, “I want my schools to be protected like I want my banks to be protected”, but a school is not a bank and it should not be treated like one. A school should be a safe place where students can learn and if teachers were armed, students would be in constant fear of their teachers. Police officers are already able to kill people without consequence and teachers should not be added to that list. Another point that Trump brought up was “a little bit of a bonus” given to armed teachers. How would teachers get enough money to have proper gun training when they don’t even have enough money for school supplies? It is not practical to purchase guns for teachers and training with guns where teachers need materials to do their job; teach.LKD from California said both gun control and gun training were needed:We need to get weapons of war off our streets, let the hunter have his riffle let the housewife have her hand gun but no 18yr. needs a weapon like that. If it would make parents, students and teachers feel safer to have a gun then sure, have a guns in school. Also the person with a fire arm has to be handed by a highly trained teacher.Sophia Cinnaminson from New Jersey said we must limit guns:Having more guns would just cause more shootings and access to these guns. In order to control guns, you must limit them. Having fire arms in school would also cause students to feel less safe and more likely to be targeted if you are in a heated situation, you would always have to watch your back. This would distract students from learning because they will constantly be worried about someone who isn’t a police officer is carrying a weapon.John Burgee from Wilmington, N.C., said enhanced security outside buildings would be a good step:I believe that training and arming educators with firearms isn’t the right thing to do in this contentious situation. If we are trying to prevent guns from being in school, then why contribute to the problem by equipping teachers with them? Trump stated, “I want my schools to be protected like I want my banks to be protected”, which may not sound like a terrible idea for some people. Although, we really can’t afford for there to be access to more weapons on school grounds, especially at this point. A principal at a high school out of Mississippi-Joel Myrick said “Teachers have to teach, and that’s what they should be doing,” which I definitely can acknowledge. Arming and training teachers will put an extreme amount of pressure on themselves, already troubling over 100 students and then on top of that having to protect them from a psychopathic gunman is a lot to handle. Instead, I think we should aim towards better enhancing security in our schools. This could range from increasing the amount of highly trained officers around the campus to just being more discipline of who enters and exits the building. I feel that letting those know that there is advanced security on school grounds will make them feel safer and make people think twice when attempting to do something as awful as what happened in Florida earlier this month.Anna Cross from Wilmington responded emphatically:NO. TEACHERS SHOULDN’T HAVE GUNS. Most teachers aren’t ex police officers or soldiers, and while you can train someone to fire a gun, it’s another thing to point and shoot it at someone. Teachers are just like the students in the sense that they want to survive a crisis situation, and whether all of them would be able to confront an intruder and hold a gun to their head (possibly the head of one of their students) is debatable. Neither are they trained to handle the effects afterwards, as Mr. Myrick said he had “acute stress for about six months afterward. Nightmares. Misery.” following the day he detained a 16 year old gunman in 1997. I understand that parents want their children to be safe at school, but placing their children’s lives in the hands of the kids’ algebra teacher is an unreasonable expectation. Furthermore, there are loads of dangerous situations that could stem from teachers bringing concealed carries onto campus, including the possibility of a future shooter obtaining one of these authorized weapons and attacking students and faculty. Making teachers bring guns to school is just the NRA trying to solve gun violence by selling more weapons, a solution that doesn’t require better background checks or halting the sale of military-grade weapons to the public. They refuse to address the real problems, and unfortunately, that’s costing innocent people their lives.Purity of Essence was succinct:More kids will be killed by teachers than would ever be killed by attackers under such an insane policy.Maxwell Hayden from Alameda Community Learning Center likes the idea of armed teachers:I personally believe that arming teachers with guns is the correct thing to do. At my school, when a “lockdown” drill is called, the only thing students and teachers can do is sit in the corner of the room an pray that we are not seen. As it turns out, keeping the teacher in the room armed would make me feel way better about my chances of survival. If a teacher feels uncomfortable armed, that’s okay: as the article mentioned, only 10-40% of teachers need to have access to a gun. Teachers could also keep each other in check if something scary does come up, but that’s what background checks are for in the first place. Finances might be hard, but Trump himself comments that federal money could be allocated to this issue. I believe the costs are relatively low to arming teachers, and the payoff is potentially tremendous.Somaloofa Earth has another solution:Tasers are a decent solution for both pro and not pro teacher getting gun people.Tina Harrell from Cinnaminson thinks schools should spend the money to increase security, but not arm teachers:Teachers should not be armed in school. All schools should start with having better safety precautions. It would mean putting up lots of money to get cameras, metal detectors, and barricades, but isn’t the money worth it to save the lives of students and school faculty members? It would cost money to arm teachers with guns. In my opinion, adding more guns to the equation does not prevent a school shooting from happening. It can only allow the teacher to take the life of the school shooter, after they probably already had shot up some of the student body. Nothing is going to completely stop this infamous phenomenon, so we should do what is best to make it harder for it to happen.Darrell from Houston is worried about racial profiling:Black Male teacher in school with a gun, attempting to protect students during a shooting event on campus staged by a white male teenager. Who do you think will get shot first. 1. white male teenager with gun or 2. Black Male Adult with gunCatie from Pennsylvania thinks teachers should not be armed:I myself wouldn’t feel safe knowing that teachers in my school have an armed weapon in their classroom. If teachers are given guns, then a lot of work and preparation will have to go into it, that may take away time from others things requiring a school to possibly take more money out of their banks to aid staff in things like courses and even the weapon itself. Another reason why I don’t believe teachers should be armed is because there will be more guns within a school which could possible create problems. Yes, guns are typically locked in a safe and kept somewhere, but where would they be kept? A classroom? A closet? Would a kid or an even an adult have easy access? A thought I have, which may be a stretch is that if other people are aware that guns are in the building they could plot to break into a safe and take one. Also If guns are not kept in classrooms (which is near children) will teachers even be able to get to their guns in time? I think rather than incorporating guns into the classrooms we should be educating people and creating safer environments without the use of weapons.Jessie from the San Francisco Bay Area responded to Catie, above, and said:As a student, I agree. I would not feel safe with an armed teacher. This problem of violence will not be solved with more violence._________The Picture Prompt “Raw Octopus” asked students to report on the most unusual food they had ever eaten.Abby Tank from Wilmington plans to try local cuisine when she travels:I am quite the foodie, there’s few foods that I wouldn’t try if I’m being completely frank. I’d say that the most unusual food I’ve ever eaten was escargot. While eating snails might not sound appetizing to many people (me included before I ever got the courage to even look at the plate- let alone eat it). But I have to say, the combination of butter, garlic, a dash of parmesan cheese, and snails will leave you craving for more. Other exotic foods that have graced my taste pallets include alligator, frog legs, seaweed, caviar, and even raw octopus, although, mine wasn’t moving like the octopus from the picture. I enjoyed every single one of those unusual foods and wouldn’t hesitate if given the opportunity to eat them again. I think it’s very unfortunate that so many people who are attending the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, are sticking to Domino’s and McDonald’s instead of trying local cuisine. Many restaurant owners in South Korea hired more part-time workers in anticipation of the tourists they’d receive during the Games, but as we find out in the article, that hasn’t been the case. If I were to visit another country, I would definitely try the local cuisine no matter how strange. Most of the unusual foods I’ve tried I ate during my trip to Europe a few summers ago. This summer, I will be traveling to Ecuador, and I am 100% without a doubt going to try the local cuisine. I absolutely cannot wait to see all of the new foods I am going to try.Noelia Arzabal from Wilmington described her “most unpleasant” food:The most unpleasant food I’ve had I would say is crickets. It wasn’t very appetizing nor the tastiest treat ever. I am all for tasting new things and giving different types of dishes from different cultures. My family actually has a diverse style of cooking, since they have many experience from starting off by working in restaurants and meeting different people from different cultures. They create a bond through food, teaching each other their most popular dishes or favorite meals that they enjoy and later sharing that with their families. I like to be very open minded to trying new things and would definitely consider trying a local cuisine from a foreign country, even though I’m not sure about trying octopus because it freaks me out just by the look of it.Jillian Lancaster from Wilmington is familiar with exotic fare:A few years ago, I would’ve said that it was unthinkable that someone would ever eat live octopus, but after visiting the night markets in Taiwan, I know just how strange exotic foods can get. From giant scorpions to big cherry tomatoes in a candy coating (I thought they were strawberries but when I took a bite- surprise! they were not.) to various seasoned bugs, there was nothing that the night market hadn’t fried and put on a stick. Before my family left the market though, we had to try a local delicacy dubbed “stinky tofu”. Basically, it was rotted tofu that the locals had grilled in a wok. I’m not sure what exactly I was expecting, but when I took a bite, I tasted what probably is the equivalent of a garbage smoothie. I was glad I tried it, but after that experience, it took a lot of dragonfruit and grass flavored candy from the Taiwanese grocery store to get that taste out of my mouth._________Students weighed in on a question posed to the Times Ethicist columnist: “Is It O.K. to Use Family Connections to Get a Job?”Patrick Losee from Wilmington said he would — and had — used nepotism to his advantage:I see nepotism as using a perfectly sensible leg up. Not using it when it’s available is like trying to play the piano with one only hand. Although I do see why the student thinks the way that they do and that you should get a job based on merit and not social capital, because you should get it because you’re skilled. But why would you to take a hit for morals if no one else does or even cares, thus wasting a rightful advantage. Also if you think about it this way, if your parent worked at a job that you now want to work at you probably know at least a little bit already about this job because of being around someone who has worked it before. For example, my father is a lawyer and because of this I do know just a little bit more about the duties of an admiralty lawyer than my peers probably would, mind you I do not want to be a lawyer, but information is still information.Due to all of this I would most certainly use nepotism to get a leg up. I actually already have, mind you I haven’t gotten the job at the moment but I did put in an application at a local shop that my brother works at and my sister-in-law used to work at. So to summarize, I would and did use nepotism because I see it not as unethical abuse of social capital but as a useful advantage that should be allowed to be utilized and not looked down upon by some. Even if it’s only to get your foot in the door for an interview, then you can really take the interviewers aback with your talents.Tanya Bolick from North Carolina also thinks it is a perfectly acceptable way to land a job:While I understand the students concern about taking the internship his dad got for him, I feel as though we need to utilize the resources provided to us. I personally don’t have a real job, but being a teenage girl I am often given the chance to babysit. Most of the people I babysit for are friends with my parents. I think that since these people know my parents they find it easier to leave their children with me. They trust me more and know I will play with their kid and not just sit on my phone.I agree with Mr. Appiah’s advice to, “Take the internship, work hard and well, get a job and rise to the level where you can reform the company’s hiring practice”. This is a way for you to use the resources you have but also do some work yourself. This allows you to prove yourself while in a job that some may think was handed to you.That being said, I also believe that getting an internship through connections can be a good thing. I believe that if our parents are going to help us get internships they should introduce us to their coworkers and bosses so that we can make connections of our own, through them. Our parents get to “use” us to do chores and little things around the house. I thinks its ok to “use “ our parents a little to set our careers on the right track.Clay Krupp from North Carolina believes bias in hiring is unavoidable:Nepotism is a two lane road, some people see it as being selfish, and others see it as an opportunity. I don’t believe that using all of the resources given to you should be seen as being selfish or stealing another’s job.Social bias will always exist, people will always want to hire their employee’s son over a new kid straight out of collage. To end this bias we are going to have to raise awareness and try to make hiring a fair process.Katharine from Rhode Island wondered if the issue was more nuanced:As someone who has gotten a job (albeit a minor one, scoring hockey games) through nepotism, I would find it hypocritical to completely deny its effectiveness. However, I think the nepotism I benefited from was on a minor scale and done out of convenience. However, if nepotism is used to promote a family member, with no regard to their skill level, or the wellbeing of the people affected by their position, then it is unacceptable.Victoria Jackson from Wilmington gave an example:This upcoming summer, I’ll be shadowing a few doctors in the specific area that I would like to study when I get to college. I have this opportunity because of my sister, if not for her I’d spend my summer like any other teenager.By all means, if you have a good connection for a job, take it, but if you obviously know you’re not qualified for it or won’t work hard to uphold your family member’s reputation, don’t.Voltron Thunderstorm from Wilmington said nepotism was fair only in certain situations:Yes, I think that family connections should definitely be used to receive a job opportunity. Keyword there is opportunity. There’s nothing wrong with playing a potential advantage that you might have, and if it can play into getting you a living — I don’t really see what the problem is. You can’t live off an internship, so scoring that internship as a result of a family member is only providing an opportunity. Now I don’t think it’s fair if you receive a job offer because your grandfather happened to be a good friend with the boss. Occupation should be based on the ability to carry out that job effectively — otherwise there’s an inefficiency in the system. There isn’t anything wrong with receiving a chance because someone close to you is creditable, the issue is when you receive the job whether you’re good at it or not._________Commenters found deep meaning in the Picture Prompt “Person,” and we were interested to learn whether each reader found something new.Zac from Wilmington understood it this way:This image pushes for something we both need and deserve, equality. A single look at these two hands one white, one black, and I understood exactly what was being conveyed. No matter what you look like, no matter your race, religion, or gender, we are all people and should be treated as such. Upon a closer second look, I paid more attention to the red string tied to both fingers. The red specifically got me thinking. It put images of love and acceptance into my head, though it also painted pictures of violence and anger. I saw the string transition from a jumbled mess to organize itself and spell the word “person.” To me, this image is representing so much more than equality alone. I see the anger and violence in the disorganized string directly resemble the years of disgusting treatment of people of color in our nation. After the disorganization fades a more refined and focus message is shown. I believe in today’s society more and more people are starting to look past all of these superficial qualities and understand there’s something more. Look at Black Panther for example, a critical and financial powerhouse with an all black cast, black writers, and a black director. I’m not trying to say racism has been eradicated there are some very obvious problems that need to be addressed. Everyday we are getting better whether it be the marches for equality or acceptance of different races and religions into popular culture. We are getting better, and this picture celebrates that.Mitchell Boehling from Wilmington analyzed the colors:To me this picture represents humanity as a whole and that now matter our many differences we are all still people. The fact that the string is attached to both hands supports this and the knot is tied tight to show that it can’t come undone. The importance of this is also shown through the colors portrayed on the picture. The four main ones pink, white, black, and red all each mean something different but when their together they form a meaning. The meaning of the colors to me are that the pink stands for love and it’s importance in our society and how it’s what ties us to our humanity. The other colors black and white are meant to show how love brings together differences and makes them the same. The red could represent that although on the outside we maybe different on the inside we are the same because in the end we all bleed red.Andrew Derushia from Wilmington considered the string tying the hands together:People all around the world try to focus on the difference between us and this segregates us. This image is depicting a red thread connecting hands of different race. The thread connecting the two writes out “person” after being jumbled. The formation of “person” from the messy stage illustrates how we have a connection as people, even though we don’t see it at first. The connection may also being depicting if we tug on hour thread the other hand will be affected, and that we all have a part to play in other people’s lives. A biological allusion that may surface with the red string, is that we all bleed the same color.Beyond the physical symbols, this pictures is calling on us to see the similarities within each other instead of our polarities. Ultimately this animation is pushing to instill a feeling of unity among its viewers, which is definitely needed today with all the racial, religious, and political divisions we deal with today.Nancy Taylor from Greensboro, N.C., interpreted it differently:The string tied around the finger is a very old custom to remind you of something you need to, well to remember.By joining the string from a dark skinned hand to a white hand says to me that we need to constantly remind ourselves that a great as our difference may be we are all joined together as a species, as humans first and the rest is just perception.Brooke from Wilmington connected the illustration’s message to current events:Person. People. Human beings. When I look at this picture I see the colorblind connection that all people have to one another. I see the plea from the artist for people to remember, as represented by the bow tied around the fingers, that despite our differences we are all human. Humans that should be accepting of all people. This artist is simply trying to exemplify how despite skin color, sex, religion, political view, how we are all still human beings that need to stand united.I have no idea when this image was created but I’d like to think that the NYT chose to use this image as a writing prompt to remind our nation that we are all people that need to stand together in this time of terrible unrest. With the recent shooting in Florida, debates across the country have been initiated tearing people apart and forcing them to take sides. I think we all need to remember that issues like these are not partisan problems, that they are people problems. We cannot let tragedies like Parkland tear us apart anymore than it already has, we need to unite as people, people without prejudices, to make decisions that will best serve the people, not sides, of our nation.And Cheyenne Newkirk from Wilmington shared this perspective:Why does everything need a label, why can’t a simple word just take on a meaning that hides below the surface. I think that is what this picture means. Person may not seem like a strong word but sometimes to get through things all you need is one person. They can be your mom or your middle school friend. A person sometimes is all you need to be able to pick your head up and keep going.I think that the ribbon represents the connection that two people can have, yet how fragile it can be. Sometimes like the article mentions we fall in and out of love. Some things aren’t meant to last. But someone will come along that you just connect with and feel free with, then you’ll know that they are your person.My person is my best friend in my old town. About 12 hours of road separates us but if when we see each other we pick up like nothing has changed. She will tell me about school, and that boy, or how she had a really good sandwich yesterday. No matter what it is … I know I have her to count on.The article explains how BFF may not be a strong enough word, but I think that no word can be strong enough for someone you call your greatest friend. You could read a million dictionaries in a million languages and you may never find a word so right, and fitting to describe that person. I think what’s more important is letting that person know that they will always be your, well … person._________After subdued celebrations in Norway following the country’s impressive Olympic wins, we wanted to know: “Has Modesty Ever Prevented You From Celebrating an Achievement?”Hudson said celebrating well-earned victories was appropriate:Norway should be very proud of their accomplishments. I mean 39 medals at 1 olympics is outstanding for a country like Norway. These athletes train for 4 years straight for 2 weeks of competition and if that were me I would be very happy to know that it all paid off and be recognized as one of the best in my sport. Don’t get me wrong be boastful to the other teams is wrong but winning something because you have earned it and celebrate because of it fits into my definition of modesty just fine.Abbey Skinner from Danvers, though, believes humility is an admirable quality:I think that it shows good character of Norway; instead of openly displaying pride in their achievements at the Olympics, they are being modest about it so they do not come off as “bragging”. Modesty is a great thing to have because it spares the feelings of others who maybe did not do as well at something that you excelled at and sharing your success would only make them feel worse. I do however believe that in bigger cases like this with the Olympics, Norway should feel like they are able to celebrate their achievements because it is on such a larger scale that it would not seem as though they are bragging as it would if it was a student celebrating they got a hundred on a test in front of another student who got a 50.This is something that I personally experience a lot in my life. Many times my friends will talk about how they all did so bad on a test that I did really well on and usually I will just stay quiet in order to spare their feelings and not seem like i’m bragging and boasting that I got a good grade. Other times modesty is important after my team wins a game; many times instead of celebrating in front of the other team we will wait until we get into the locker room.And Jordyn I from Westfield, N.J., said “modesty is a necessity”:Modesty is a necessity. It is what keeps our feet on the ground, and our heads in reality. It is easy to get overly fixated on accomplishments, but with just a little bit of modesty the downfalls can me appreciated too.Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington suggested that placing too much value on humility could be damaging for some:Norway is unique in wanting to down play accomplishments at the Olympic level, but I think that it is custom almost everywhere to take modesty so far that we are hindering our pride and confidence that comes from accomplishment. This issue is especially prominent with women. From a young age we are taught not to be boastful, to win with grace. Good advice, right? Nobody wants a graceless winner. However, the problem starts when women take away from their accomplishment to make others, especially men feel better about themselves. The amount of times I have heard women say things like, “oh, it was just luck,” or “You deserved it more, the only reason I got this was … (insert ‘excuse’ as to why a woman did something better)”, is remarkable and sad. Or what about the classic storyline of a man feeling inmasculine and uncomfortable because their significant other is in a higher powered job or makes more money, leading to the demise of the relationship? The culture around women and success is just like in Norway with the fear that they are winning too much. Modesty is a good thing when it is not self-deprecating and full of double standards. Modesty is not reducing yourself to save somebody else’s’ feelings — it is being proud and thankful for success while not using it as a weapon against others, but unfortunately that belief standpoint has been and continues to be left behind.Isabelle Silva from Massachusetts saw benefits and drawbacks to downplaying one’s accomplishments:Personally, when I experience success, I am similar to the Norwegians in that I remain humble and feel there is no need for celebrations; one who never seeks attention. Modesty can be good in certain situations but binding in others. Recently, I toured colleges and met with a field hockey coach. When asked about myself, I almost forget to mention some of my achievements; one in particular — my recently earned captain-ship. My modesty and fear of being too boastful almost prevented me from sharing something great. For me, my humbleness can sometimes get in the way of sharing, or even remembering that I am successful; and I have realized that success should be celebrated, not ignored.Bella Cankurtaran from Wilmington identified with Norway’s humility:When I was younger, my mother told me stories of her embarrassment when her professor would announce her perfect grade for each test. She would keep her head down and just shrug it off. I can remember questioning her actions, thinking if I ever got a better grade than my classmates, I would be proud and flaunt my achievement. Turns out my mother was right. My first year taking Spanish was a breeze. The concept felt so natural for me and while my classmates were struggling, I would be making one hundreds. I received cold glances from my friends as they whispered that I was such a try hard. I could do nothing more than keep my head down and shrug it off.That’s why I don’t blame Norway’s concernment for their insane medal count. I can empathize their feelings for a grand achievement that is envied by others. Keeping it on the down low is the only way to escape that especially when you are “one of the world’s richest countries”. The country is used to being humble so staying this way will be normal. Also, a strong point the article brought up was if the Norwegians completely dominate cross-country skiing, the other countries will lose hope and stop trying so hard. Their duty of modesty is to keep their favorite sport alive and ongoing, and there’s no shame in that. While I do believe Norway should celebrate these athletes a little for their history made at the Games, it is apart of their culture to remain humble and apart of their passion for winter sports to let them reign on._________There were so many excellent comments for our Student Opinion prompt “How Do You Think Technology Affects Dating?” that it was difficult to select just a few.Logan B. from Wilmington said human interaction was diminished:With dating apps on the rise there is much less human interaction in the initial stages of dating. Most people think that this is a bad thing but some might like it. There are many people in college that are too afraid to go out and try to meet new people at a bar but those people are perfectly comfortable when that can have a conversation before their fist date, whether it’s over an app or over text message. In the opinion article that relates to this question Caleb Keyes of Otterbein University, Class of 2018 said that “In high school I had always wanted to date but struggled to believe anyone would want to date me. When I got to college those fears were compounded …” Some people are just more comfortable using dating apps than trying to meet strangers, and that is something that we are going to have to accept as technology becomes a bigger part of our lives.Victoria Jackson from Wilmington thinks dating apps are shallow:Constantly in media false ideas of relationships are portrayed. Often times, we conjure up this idea that dating is supposed to come naturally, feel comfortable, and be dreamy. But then we go out in the real world and are faced with the hard truth that dating is anything but what it seems to be in the movies. I’m sure the makers of dating apps thought they were doing everyone a favor, but what they seem to be doing according to Madeline Apple, is “[killing] the college dating scene. Because it’s so easy to swipe left or right on a seemingly endless pile of potential partners, it’s become harder to actually meet anyone.” Tinder is an incredibly shallow dating app. You could probably spend hours swiping on “potential matches”, only those “matches” don’t lead to many relationships. If you see something you like, you swipe right. It’s not like you get to know that person before you decide that they’re worth swiping for. I personally think that emotion has been taken out of the equation of dating. A perfect example, from what I’ve heard from many users of Tinder, is it’s not geared towards dating, when someone swipes right, they’re not thinking about what your interests are, they’re thinking about how they can get you to spend the night. On another token, on dating websites, people are able to say however they feel. Often times, what they say online, contrasts what they’d say in person, which is usually an awkward experience. Dating online has caused us to forget how to socialize.Nikki Tinnerello from Wilmington warned about catfishing:Dating apps as we all can agree on have definitely changed the way people connect and find love … or well maybe just hookup. As the article mentioned, Tinder has been popularized as just a one night stand kind of ordeal, I mean how often do you hear someone say, “I fell in love at first swipe!” The idea of Netflix and chill less of a meme now than it is just plain reality. In my opinion apps such as Tinder have taken the reality away from love, turning deep connections and long conversations to get to know one another into shallow meetups. And to top it all off you gotta add in the factor of catfishing, it’s hard to trust and meet someone you don’t even know is real, which could not only lead to heartbreak, but something much more dangerous.Kaley Nesselroade from Wilmington said real connections were lost:I believe that texting is an important aspect of getting to know somebody. A lot of times people are more comfortable behind their phones and are more willing to express their feelings through text message than face to face. However, texting also comes with miscommunication due to the lack of personal interaction of hearing the intention behind the words used. I agree with the article that “Dating apps may have killed the college dating scene.” By using an app like Tinder, and endlessly swiping left or right, people are unable to form real connections. They get caught up in the excitement of it all which makes finding a long lasting relationship that much harder. For me personally, I would never see myself using a dating app. I realize that some people find their soulmate and live happily ever after, but the chances of that over the internet is just too unrealistic. I would prefer meeting someone in the old fashioned way by just letting it happen. Social media has a way of taking out the personal interaction that is necessary to develop a meaningful relationship. If I lived in an era where I could only text or call someone, I would be perfectly happy.Brooke from Wilmington thinks people need to redefine dating by putting phones down and looking around instead:Technology today has defined how we as a society “date”. I think that it has affected how we communicate with others for better and for worse. While technology can be incredibly helpful for people in long distance relationships, I think there is an aspect of dating that you lose by only getting to know each other through your phone. I’ve heard my parents talk about “how things were different back in my day, we had to go out and socialize”, and I think that there is a great truth to this. It’s bad enough that social media dictates our lives, and it’s even worse when we substitute swiping left or right for meeting people face to face, real human interaction. When you are talking to someone via social media or your phone it becomes so easy to hide who you really are behind the illuminated screen. It’s so much harder to go deep beneath the surface of the “u up?” conversations online and this is causing people to have falsified ideas of what dating and relationships are supposed to look like. I think our society needs to redefine dating by putting down our phones and taking a look around everything and everyone right in front of us.James C from North Carolina said face-to-face was best:Technology has affected dating tremendously. Instead of having to actually go outside and try to find the right girl or guy, people can just sit down and use their phones. This is definitely not how relationships should be formed. Technology has made what is supposed to be a loving and caring connection to a person become emotionless. If you can’t already tell this is what Tinder and other dating applications have done to people looking to find a meaningful relationship. Anybody can act great and seem like a great guy or girl when they put down fake things and lie about themselves online, but when it is in real life it is special. Nothing in the world of technology will ever bring two people together more than being face to face with one another. Technology has made dating so much worse, and should not be a factor in who you find for a relationship.Michael DiCenzo from North Carolina said even texting had changed how couples interact:I strongly believe that technology has affected dating. The app Tinder has ruined the whole experience of trying to find that right fish in the sea. This is also causing people to be preyed on by social media creeps. Even texting has ruined the experience of meeting up with someone and asking how their day was. Even if you go out on a date now a days, you see couples just staring into their phones. Couples are becoming brain dead to what true love really means. Technology makes everyone on a quick conversation format; How are you today and bye. Friendships are not what they were used to be either. In my opinion we should put it down go find that special someone like how it was meant to be. Adrianna dimone from Wilmington, N.C., said tech dating is awkward: When technology is the way, you first meet someone it tends to be awkward in person. It is so much easier to say whatever over the phone or in text, and usually you feel more shy or uncomfortable in person. The example for the writer of the passage explaining how in college she used tender, how she says all the people you see on there see you to. When she was to go out in public people recognized her and she felt embarrassed because all tender is for is to some company your feeling lonely but can usually the connection or first look at each other your eyes lock with theirs. You feel comfortable with them but also talking over the phone leaves out so much from seeing what you love most about that person, from their smile or to the way they play with their hands when their nervous.Brennan Litzinger from Wilmington said overuse of technology could lead to cheating:I definitely think technology affects dating and relationships. Anyone can make a profile on an online dating app and the person you meet could be totally different than who you were texting in the app. I believe that it could worsen relationships because if couples are just sitting down and watching Netflix, they aren’t actually talking. I think this could hurt their relationship in the long run. Couples are also more likely to cheat in my opinion with the overuse of technology in their relationship. As the article said, “Someone I was dating made a friend online which developed into something more, and I was blindsided by it.” I know that technology is a necessity in this day and age, so I think you and your partner should have an agreement on how to use it.Elliott O’Deen from North Carolina thinks people only show the best parts of themselves online:Everything changes over time. The way people hang out, the clothing people wear, the cars people drive. With time technology will get more and more advanced and we should be able to utilize it but not depend. If you abuse the easy swipe left or right, you might miss someone or not see who a person actually is because everyone is a different person online and only shows the best parts of themselves. If someone has little quirks and cute things they do that they are embarrassed of, that you think are cute, you might never know that and see the real them because you never had a real conversation. If you can’t talk to people and talking to people online helps you and you carefully pick who to swipe on, you might actually find someone. Some people are introverted and would rather talk online first and others are extraverted and not need the assistance of an app. I think people should meet up more and hang out face to face and actually get to know people before they make assumptions but also use what we have because, yes, some people go on 4 dates a week and never establish real connections and others need an app to find people just like them.Emily Duran from Rhode Island said technology played too big a role in dating today:Personally, when it comes to dating I find that technology plays too big of a role. Apps such as Netflix have become a new way of dating. Many couples decide to do things including technology such as Netflix dates, or begin to communicate on social media platforms more often then real life. I find that technology can have both negative and positive effects to relationships. For one, it can help make communication easier, but at some points can also detract from in life communication. I think there needs to be a balance between what we leave to technology, and what we should leave to face to face interactions. However it’s not all negative because dating apps can help bring two people together who might not have been able to meet before.Sydney Durner from Wilmington said all dating was uncomfortable:Any type of dating can be extremely nerve-racking. There are so many expectations that come with dating. Technology has made it easier to meet new people who live near you and have similar interests to you. Although, online dating is highly casual as opposed to someone you have known for a while and see very often. As one of the articles mentions, “the same snap asking to ‘hang out’ sent at 2 p.m. can have a completely different meaning when sent at 2 a.m.Most online dating apps meant for young people, such as tinder, are tailored for the “hooking up” crowds, people who want someone to be with, but not for long. These relationships are very casual. They are great for meeting new people, but most “tinder relationships” don’t seem to workout.Technology is a great way to communicate with your boyfriend, girlfriend, or potential love interest that you don’t get to see very often. Yes, you do have the occasional missed text, like Kasey Roper mentions, but if you can’t see this person every single day, texting, snapchatting, calling, and video calls make up for those lost hours and can bring the two of you closer.Emilia Cordon from Wilmington said online dating was less honest:I am not a huge proponent of online dating but still see, and reap, the benefits of technology as a means of communication whether we are friends or more. It is a great way to talk to people, because nowadays everyone is busy and can’t always meet.Online dating is the exception. It leeches the true meaning of dating by putting it an algorithm and letting it rip. People are meeting on these sites by the dozen, and quantity is not the same as quality. Rather than opting for a dating site, just meet people and make connections. Sure, not everyone will be relationship material, but at least you are meeting people and probably making friends.Another problem is that people are less intimidated online which does more harm than good. It means that people are less likely to be honest and more likely to feel comfortable behind the mask of the internet. This is scary because you can speak to someone online and think you know them, then see them in person and doubt this. This is a horrible feeling and really makes a person think, is your relationship isolated to the internet or actually more.Relationships are to be made in person, supplemented by the internet, not the other way around.Monalene Delo from Wilmington said online dating broadened the dating pool for everyone:Dating in today’s world can be very stressful. Meeting people and being social can be intimidating. There are so many apps to meet people. Social media has become the new outlet to meet people. As referenced in the article it is more common to ask someone you like for their Snapchat, then it is to ask for their phone number. We are in a different time with dating. It is a lot different then it use to be. There are definitely a lot of pros and cons, with so many risks. On one hand it gives us great opportunities to meet new people and increase our connections in society. On the other hand we don’t know who is a genuine person just trying to meet someone nice and someone that could be a danger. Interactions with people can be way different online than in person for numerous reasons. One being that it is easier to say things behind a screen than in person. Dating has never been easy, I don’t think that there will ever be a time when it’s going to be easy to put yourself out there. Also mentioned in the article is how social media has transformed the dating scene, which is very true. I think the current dating world we are living in gives us a lot of opportunities to meet people, which is exciting. Because people never use to meet anyone other than someone that lived near them. Overall I do think that it has improved relationships.Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington thinks technology has ruined some of the magic:I’ve had one goal for when I finally can get a girlfriend. I’ve wanted to run down to her house regardless of mileage, and hold up a boombox playing her favorite song out on her front porch and see her smile. Since 2012, dating has changed drastically and for the worse. Not just Tinder, but Match and E-harmony have messed with dating for ages by convincing us to see complete strangers that we only know a few facts about. The increase of texting and snap chatting may make us more social, but you don’t build that human connection that our parents and their parents. How am I supposed to build up the confidence of a face to face communication if we spend so much time speaking through screens, how am I going to stand in front of a Nissan holding up a Bluetooth brick, or even see her real smile. Tinder in colleges doesn’t help especially because it’s lustful curse. Think about it, if you use the app and get three swipes back, you could possibly have a class with those same three people. College is a time for you to take care of yourself, not going around with your pants down knocking on every door. Dating needs to be when you stay with somebody because you enjoy the time and interests they share with you, not just because of their shape or selfies.Advertisement