AdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Joanne Sue-Kyung Kim and Ayendy José Bonifacio were married May 2 by Judge Cynthia L. Ebner at the Franklin County Probate Court in Columbus, Ohio.The couple met at Ohio State, where the bride received both a master’s degree and a Ph.D. in English, and the groom a master’s degree in English; he is also pursuing a Ph.D. in the subject.The couple became study partners at Ohio State in the fall of 2013 and were dating by the end of the school year. They found solidarity in their love of 19th-century poets and their experiences as children in immigrant families. For each, English, their first true love, was a second language.But in May 2015, the bride suffered a traumatic brain injury while skateboarding, and for 11 days the groom sat at her side in the hospital, unsure of their future. “I couldn’t believe this was happening to us,” Mr. Bonifacio said. “I was afraid of losing my best friend. I didn’t know whether or not she would survive, and if she did, if she would know who I was, what we were.”Read more.John Henry Korman and Sean Joseph McGuinness were married May 5. Scott D. Hecht, a Universal Life minister and friend of the couple, officiated at the weekend beach house in Wading River, N.Y., of another friend, Tom Watson.Mr. Korman and Mr. McGuinness met in 2005, at a gay bar in Bayshore, N.Y., and the chemistry between them was instantaneous. They chatted for a while and agreed to meet again at a different bar, which wasn’t a gay bar, in Bellport, N.Y. It was a bar Mr. Korman knew well and had suggested because it was near where Mr. McGuinness lived.Mr. Korman arrived first, and chatted with a number of acquaintances, telling them about the good-looking, green-eyed gentleman with a beautiful smile whom he was there to meet. When Mr. McGuinness arrived, it turned out that he, too, knew a number of people in the bar. At the time, he was the deputy superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore.But Mr. McGuinness, who got a seasonal ranger job in Jackson Hole, Wyo., for his first job out of college and then spent his entire career in the National Park Service, hadn’t yet come out publicly.“It wasn’t in me to come out,” Mr. McGuinness said. “I was nervous about work, I was nervous about family.”Read more. Leslie Dee Rosenbaum and Charles Harrison are to be married May 6 at the Water Club in Manhattan. Louis Rosenbaum, the bride’s brother who became a Universal Life minister for the event, is to officiate.Ms. Rosenbaum was just 18 when she and a girlfriend left New York in September 1970 to explore London.“I was always into fashion and culture,” Ms. Rosenbaum said, “and I was always fascinated by London.”Shortly after arriving there, she and her friend went out to the Speakeasy, a London club frequented by marquee names in the music industry like Elton John, Jimi Hendrix, the Who and Led Zeppelin.Ms. Rosenbaum bumped into Mr. Harrison, a 17-year-old professional bass guitarist player for the pop star Leo Sayer.“I was like, ‘Wow, this girl from New York is beautiful,’” Mr. Harrison recalled. “I was totally swept off my feet.”For Ms. Rosenbaum, who said she found him “adorable,” London soon became much more fascinating in the company of Mr. Harrison.“He was so sweet and so talented,” she said. “We just seemed to fit perfectly together.”While her friend eventually returned to New York, Ms. Rosenbaum stayed in England for nearly two years with Mr. Harrison, leaving only once, for a three-month visit to Hong Kong, where her parents and sister had moved to for business reasons.Ms. Rosenbaum, who said that she and Mr. Harrison “had sort of stopped dating but became the best of friends,” moved to Los Angeles in 1972 to take a job in the movie industry overseeing the distribution of big-screen films to theaters across the country.Two years later, Mr. Harrison was on tour in the United States and Ms. Rosenbaum went to see him play at the Troubadour, a nightclub in West Hollywood, Calif.“I was only 21 and he was only 20, but just seeing him again made me realize I was still very much in love with him,” Ms. Rosenbaum said. “So I went back to England to live with him again.”Read more.Pearl Ying Zhou and Gordon Kaiwei Shu were married May 5 at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx. The Rev. Joseph Tsang, who is ordained by the Overseas Chinese Mission, a church in Manhattan, officiated.Mrs. Shu, 28, is a manager of business operations and strategy at Namely, a software technology start-up company in Manhattan. She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.She is the daughter of Chu Bin Zhou and Yao Ming Zhou of Brooklyn.Mr. Shu, 30, is an investment banking associate in the New York office of Barclays Investment Bank. He graduated from West Point and received an M.B.A. from Northwestern University. He served in the Army for five years as an engineer officer, including two deployments to Afghanistan in 2010 and 2012. During his service, he achieved the rank of captain and was awarded the Army Commendation Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster.He is the son of Suenee Shu of Torrance, Calif., and the late Vincent Shu.The couple met in July 2015 on the dating app Coffee Meets Bagel.Irina Daniela Manta and Carlos Henrique Farini were married May 4 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Alisa Fuentes, a staff member in the New York City Clerk’s Office, officiated.Ms. Manta, 37, is a lawyer and a law professor at Hofstra University, where she is also the founding director of the Center for Intellectual Property Law. She graduated magna cum laude from Yale, from which she also received a law degree.She is the daughter of Michaela E. Manta and Victor Manta of Manhattan. The bride’s parents are retired. Her father was a physicist at the University of Bern in Switzerland, her mother a computer specialist at the Universal Postal Union in Bern.Mr. Farini, 35, works in Manhattan as an independent mobile software developer.He is a son of Dr. Marli Jaines Cerveira of São Paulo, Brazil, and Dr. Nelson Gaban Farini of Caraguatatuba, Brazil. His mother is an orthodontist in São Paulo. His father, now retired, was an oral surgeon there.The couple met in 2017 through the dating app Bumble.The bride’s previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom’s.Darcy Clayton Newell and Alexander Hastings Muñoz were married May 5 at the Cornerstone Sonoma, an events space in Sonoma, Calif. Jessica Staley, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated.The bride, 31, is a senior director and head of verbal branding at Prophet Brand Strategy, a consultancy in San Francisco. She graduated cum laude from Vanderbilt.She is the daughter of Marjorie Newell and H. Peter Newell of Houston. The bride’s father serves as the managing director of Vontobel Asset Management in New York.The groom, also 31, is the vice president for finance at Jitterbit, a technology company based in Alameda, Calif., that helps professionals connect applications, data and systems. He graduated from N.Y.U.He is a son of Nancy Foster Muñoz and the late Dr. Eric Muñoz. The groom’s mother, a registered nurse, became the assemblywoman for the 21st District of New Jersey upon her husband’s death in 2009, and has held the position since. His father was a trauma surgeon and professor at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark, and an assemblyman for the 21st District of New Jersey.The couple met when they were eight years old at Brayton Elementary School in Summit, N.J.Sarah Elizabeth Hirsh and George Michael Cokenakes were married May 5 in a self-uniting ceremony in Philadelphia that was witnessed by two friends, as allowed by Pennsylvania law. The wedding took place in Hamilton Garden at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts.The bride, 25, and the groom, 28, met at the College of New Jersey, from which each graduated.Mrs. Cokenakes is to receive a medical degree from Thomas Jefferson University later this month.She is a daughter of Dr. Jennifer Lee Hirsh and Donald J. Hirsh of Pennington, N.J. The bride’s father is a professor and the chairman of the chemistry department at the College of New Jersey. Her mother is a staff anesthesiologist at Princeton Anesthesia Services, which is in Plainsboro, N.J.Mr. Cokenakes is a product manager at Sigmapharm Laboratories in Bensalem, Pa., and is a candidate for a doctoral degree in pharmaceutics at University of the Sciences in Philadelphia.He is the son of Kathleen Robertson Cokenakes and Michael Cokenakes of Newtown, Pa. The groom’s mother retired as a human resources manager for New Jersey’s Department of Children and Families; her office was in Trenton. His father retired as an auditor in the taxation division of New Jersey’s Department of Treasury; his office was also in Trenton.Kristin Helene LaBuz and Patrick Warren Ciccone were married April 30 at the Manhattan Marriage Bureau. Angel L. Lopez, a staff member of the New York City Clerk’s Office, officiated.The bride, 34, works in Manhattan as a deputy director for development and communications at Open House New York, a civic nonprofit organization that provides public access to the architecture of New York through its annual Open House New York Weekend. She graduated from Case Western Reserve University and received a master’s degree in urban planning from the University of Pennsylvania.She is the daughter of Erica LaBuz and Tom LaBuz, both of Oneonta, N.Y. The bride’s father is a sales associate for Scholet Furniture in Oneonta. Her mother is a secretary to the business manager for the Oneonta City School District.The groom, 37, is the vice president of Crow Hill Development in Brooklyn, a real estate development firm specializing in the adaptive reuse of historic buildings. He graduated from Columbia, from which he also received a master’s degree in historic preservation.He is a son of Joanne W. Ciccone and Michael A. Ciccone of Charlottesville, Va. The groom’s father is the senior director of Crashworthiness Evaluations at the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety in Ruckersville, Va.The couple met on OkCupid.Kathleen Keenan Lynch and Dr. William Dallas Zelenty were married May 5 at the Church of St. Francis de Sales in Phoenicia, N.Y. The Rev. Raphael Iannone, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 30, is the director of operations at Art Production Fund, a nonprofit organization in New York dedicated to commissioning and producing public art projects. She graduated from Rutgers and received two bachelor’s degrees, one in art history and the other in French.She is a daughter of Deborah Keenan Lynch and Gerard J. Lynch of Bridgewater, N.J. The bride’s father is the president of the Sigma Design Company, an engineering firm in Middlesex, N.J. Her mother is a professor of culinary arts, hospitality and dietetics at Middlesex County College in Edison, N.J.The groom, 29, is a resident physician in orthopedic surgery at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He graduated magna cum laude from George Washington University and received a medical degree from N.Y.U.He is a son of Paul L. Zelenty of Bridgewater and the late Rebecca Lyndsay Zelenty. The groom’s father is a partner of Graham Curtin, a law firm in Middlesex. The groom is a stepson of Cheryl Agbannawag Zelenty.The couple met as 16-year-old students at Bridgewater-Raritan High School. They dated and went on to attend separate universities, but reconnected in 2012 when they both were living and working in New York.Jennifer Feng-Chia Kong and Alvin Lin were married May 5 at Aracely Cafe in San Francisco. Derming Chen, an uncle of the bride who became a minister of the Christian National Church for the occasion, officiated.Mrs. Lin, 35, is a senior program manager at Blue Shield of California Foundation in San Francisco. She graduated from Stanford, from which she also received a master’s degree in English.She is a daughter of Karin Kong of Saratoga, Calif., and the late Cheng-Gang Kong. Her father was an engineer at LSI Logic, a software company in San Jose, Calif.Mr. Lin, 27, works as a senior associate for marketing operations at Cloudera, a data analytics company in San Francisco. He graduated from the University of California, Santa Cruz.He is the son of Anna Lin and Alex Lin of San Francisco. The groom’s father is a captain for United Airlines based at San Francisco International Airport. His mother retired as a piano teacher in San Francisco.The couple met in November 2016 in the waiting room of a therapist’s office.Nicole Caroline Israel and Colman Anthony O’Reilly are to be married May 6 at the Beauport Hotel in Gloucester, Mass. Richard E. Perry Jr., a justice of the peace there, is to officiate.The bride, 40, will take her husband’s name. She works as the editor and writer at the New York law firm Debevoise & Plimpton. She graduated from Boston University and received a master’s degree in journalism from Columbia. She received a law degree from New York Law School.Ms. Israel is the daughter of Dr. Michael R. Israel of Dearborn, Mich., and Fatima U. Israel of Secaucus, N.J. The bride’s father works in Dearborn as a general and vascular surgeon for Dearborn Surgical Associates. Her mother retired as a nurse supervisor at New York Downtown Hospital.The groom, 41, works in New York as a police aircraft rescue firefighter for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. He graduated from Binghamton University.Mr. O’Reilly is the son of Colman M. O’Reilly of Sparkill, N.Y., and the late Anne Marie O’Reilly. His father is the president of the Wolfe Tone Corporation, an office equipment installation business in Sparkill.The couple met in 2016 at a speed-dating event at the Hyatt Union Square, a hotel in New York.Sara Melinda Beesley and Joshua David Sherman were married May 5 at Convention Hall, a concert and events venue in Asbury Park, N.J. Rabbi David H. Grossman, an uncle of the bride, officiated.Ms. Beesley, 33, is the vice president for program and production at Wolf Trap Foundation for the Performing Arts in Vienna, Va. She graduated from Manhattanville College.Mr. Sherman, 43, is the chief operating officer, in Washington, of Grand Central Booking, which represents touring theater and entertainment properties, and was also a producer of “Shatner’s World: We Just Live in It.” He graduated from Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., and received an M.F.A. in performing arts management from Brooklyn College.He is the son of Rita M. Sherman of Bay Head, N.J., and the late Jeffry C. Sherman.The couple were introduced in 2014 by a mutual friend while in the lobby of the New York Hilton during the annual Association of Performing Arts Professionals. “Within the first 10 minutes, I was inviting her to karaoke,” Mr. Sherman said. And three days later, when that date came, she chose “Brass in Pocket” by the Pretenders for her first song. “I was like, I can’t even fathom how awesome this person already is,” he said.Lauren Elizabeth Palmor and David Reuben Kiferbaum are to be married May 6 by Rabbi Aubrey Glazer at the University of California Botanical Garden at Berkeley.Ms. Palmor, 32, is the assistant curator of American art at the de Young Museum in San Francisco. She graduated from Sarah Lawrence and received a master’s degree in the history of art from the Courtauld Institute of Art in London and a Ph.D. in art history from the University of Washington in Seattle.She is a daughter of Linda R. Palmor and Julian Y. Palmor of Los Altos, Calif. The bride’s father, a mortgage broker, retired as a principal in Broker One Mortgage in Los Altos. Her mother is a financial consultant to start-up software and real estate technology companies in California’s Silicon Valley.Mr. Kiferbaum, also 32, is an associate commercial counsel at Google in San Francisco. He graduated from Cornell, where he also received a law degree.He is a son of Sandra Schon Kiferbaum and Jacob Kiferbaum of Glencoe, Ill. The groom’s mother, now retired, taught English as a second language at Oakton Community College in Des Plaines, Ill. His father is a real estate investor in Deerfield, Ill.The couple met on OkCupid in 2014. A few months after a lackluster first date at a barbecue restaurant, the two ran into each other while attending a lecture on tenderness at the San Francisco Zen Center. This time, the groom was glowing with a radiant light, the bride said, and she insisted they go on another date.Dr. Caitlin Brady Clancy and Daniela Marie O’Keefe are to be married May 6 in a self-uniting ceremony at Barbuzzo, a restaurant in Philadelphia.Dr. Clancy (right), 32, works in Philadelphia as a pulmonary and critical care fellow at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. She graduated from Columbia, from which she also received a medical degree.Dr. Clancy is the daughter of Ann T. Brady and John M. Clancy of Middletown, N.Y. Dr. Clancy’s father is a lawyer in private practice in Goshen, N.Y. Her mother retired as a nurse practitioner at Planned Parenthood Mid-Hudson Valley and Middletown Community Health Center in Middletown.Ms. O’Keefe, 31, is an administrative fellow for the University of Pennsylvania Health System. She graduated from Florida International University and received a master’s degree in social work from the University of Pennsylvania and a master’s degree in health informatics from Temple University.Ms. O’Keefe is the daughter of Josefina Verdugo of Santiago, Chile, and Kevin J. O’Keefe of Miami. Ms. O’Keefe’s father retired as a school psychologist for the Miami-Dade County Public School system. Her mother works as a freelance graphic designer in Santiago, where she also organizes art exhibitions.The couple met in 2015 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. Clancy was a medical resident and Ms. O’Keefe was a social worker.Madison Louise Kelly and Thomas Paul DeFranco were married May 5 at Ponte Vedra Inn and Club in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. The Rev. Dr. G. Gilman Watson, a Methodist minister, officiated.Mrs. DeFranco, 30, is a senior account executive in the New York office of WeddingWire, an online market for wedding vendors. She graduated from the College of Charleston.She is a daughter of Barbara M. Kelly and David R. Kelly of Ponte Vedra Beach. The bride’s father is the vice president of sales at Wagner Family of Wines in Rutherford, Calif. Her mother sits on the board of the JT Townsend Foundation in Ponte Vedra Beach, which provides financial assistance and other support to disabled people.Mr. DeFranco, 29, is an associate at Schulte Roth & Zabel, a New York law firm, where he focuses on white collar criminal defense and commercial litigation. He graduated from Wake Forest University and received both a law degree and a Master of Laws in securities and financial regulation from Georgetown.He is a son of Margaret T. DeFranco and Paul E. DeFranco of Lloyd Harbor, N.Y. The groom’s mother is a research nurse coordinator for the Feinstein Institute for Medical Research in Manhasset, N.Y. His father is an executive director at JPMorgan Chase in New York.The couple met in 2012 through OkCupid.Abigail Adrienne Nurse and Michael Whittier Gaskins were married May 5 by Jamelia N. Morgan, a Universal Life minister, at Wellers Carriage House in Saline, Mich.Ms. Nurse, 32, is a lawyer in the civil rights division of the Justice Department in Washington. She graduated from the University of Michigan and received a law degree from N.Y.U.She is a daughter of Patricia F. Nurse and Esrold A. Nurse of Ann Arbor, Mich. The bride’s father is an assistant dean and director of advising at the University of Michigan, from which her mother retired as a billing manager for the school’s health system.Mr. Gaskins, 30, teaches math and science to fifth graders at Seat Pleasant Elementary School in Capitol Heights, Md. He graduated from Drexel University and received a master’s degree in public policy from George Washington University.He is the son of Mary L. Scott Gaskins and Melvin W. Gaskins of Bowie, Md. The groom’s mother is an ophthalmologist in Greenbelt, Md. His father works in Bowie as an associate medical director of eviCore, a medical benefits management company based in Bluffton, S.C.The couple were introduced by a mutual friend in 2014 in Washington.Amanda Blair Shiff and Andrew Jedi Buck were married May 4. The Rev. Harold J. Kilborn, a minister of the Assemblies of God, officiated at the Grand Hyatt in Kauai, Hawaii.Ms. Shiff, 33, who is known as Blair, is a senior video producer in the digital department of ABC News in New York. She graduated from the University of Texas.She is the daughter of Melinda Philpot Shiff and Max J. Shiff of Plano, Tex. The bride’s father retired as a manufacturers’ representative in Dallas, selling seasonal decorations to retailers. Her mother is a preschool teacher at Grace Presbyterian Christian Day School in Plano.Mr. Buck, 34, is a photojournalist in the New York bureau of CNN. He graduated from Metropolitan State University of Denver.He is a son of Jaime Stuart Buck and Glenn W. Buck of Thornton, Colo. The groom’s mother is a language and literature teacher at Westlake Middle School in Broomfield, Colo. His father is an information technology director in the Denver office of Western Union, the financial services and communications company.The couple met in 2011, when both worked at 9News, the NBC affiliate in Denver.The bride’s previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom’s.Elise Rachel Shutzer and Matthew Thomas Williams were married May 4 at the District Winery, an events space in Washington. Aaron B. Shutzer, the brother of the bride who became a minister of American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.The bride, 37, will continue to use her name professionally. She is the director of field operations for the Pew Charitable Trusts, a foundation and advocacy organization in Washington. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.She is the daughter of Carole B. Shutzer and Kenneth B. Shutzer of Swampscott, Mass. The bride’s father is the managing partner of Shutzer, Laurion & Associates, a law firm in Lynn, Mass. Her mother is a reading and library specialist at the Harrington Elementary School, also in Lynn.Mr. Williams, 34, owns TM Financial Partners, a wealth management advisory firm with offices in Fairfax, Va., and Bridgeport, W.Va. He graduated from West Virginia University.He is a son of Gladys Williams and Thomas Williams of Clarksburg, W.Va. The groom’s mother retired as a health and physical education teacher at Bridgeport High School in Bridgeport, W.Va. His father is a financial adviser in the Bridgeport office of the groom’s company.The couple met in 2015 through Match.com.Daniel Alexander Naughton and Zachary John Planell Kirkhorn were married April 30 at the Alameda County clerk’s office in Oakland, Calif. Beneba Thomas, a deputy marriage commissioner, officiated.Mr. Naughton (left), 33, is a senior finance manager at OpenTable in San Francisco, the online restaurant reservation company. He graduated from Yale and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.He is the son of Patricia A. Serventi Naughton and John T. Naughton of Cazenovia, N.Y. Mr. Naughton’s mother, a lawyer, is a partner in the Syracuse law firm Barclay Damon. His father is a professor of French literature at Colgate.Mr. Kirkhorn, also 33, is a senior director of finance at Tesla Motors in Fremont, Calif. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and also received an M.B.A. from Harvard.He is the son of Joan M. Planell and Robert L. Kirkhorn Jr. of Woodland, Calif. Mr. Kirkhorn’s mother is a health and human services policy consultant for local and county governments in the Sacramento area. His father, now retired, was a senior mental health trainer for the State Department and served, until 2009, as the director of the Office of Special Services for the United States Peace Corps.The couple met in 2010 while working as business analysts in the San Francisco and Palo Alto offices of McKinsey & Company.Dr. Joanna Elizabeth Perdomo and Dr. Scott Andrew Elman were married May 5 at the Woman’s Club of Coconut Grove in Miami. Dr. Lillian C. Buchhalter, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for this event, officiated in a ceremony that included traditional Jewish elements.The bride and groom met at Washington University in St. Louis, from which each graduated, he summa cum laude.Dr. Perdomo, 29, is a third-year pediatrics resident at Boston Children’s Hospital and at Boston Medical Center. She received a medical degree from the University of Chicago.She is a daughter of Nancy L. Perdomo and José E. Perdomo of Miami. The bride’s father is the senior vice president for ethics and compliance at Nicklaus Children’s Hospital, which is in Miami. Her mother works as a registered nurse and clinical documentation specialist, also at Nicklaus Children’s Hospital.Dr. Elman, also 29, is a second-year resident in internal medicine and dermatology at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. He received a medical degree from Harvard.He is a son of Marilyn R. Elman and Arthur I. Elman of Livingston, N.J. The groom’s mother is a Spanish teacher at Heritage Middle School in Livingston. His father retired as the vice president for real estate and facilities planning at Automatic Data Processing, which is in Roseland, N.J.The two didn’t date in college, but in 2015, when both were in Boston, they reconnected through the dating app Hinge. “It was like, oh, yeah, Scott, that makes sense,” Dr. Perdomo said.Gabriella Carolina Bunker Gentil and Kyle Christopher Hickson were married May 5 at the Lyford Cay Club in Nassau, New Providence, Bahamas. Keith Cartwright, archdeacon of the Diocese of the Bahamas and the Turks and Caicos Islands, officiated.The bride, 28, and the groom, 31, are managers of the Faru Faru Lodge, a conservation and hospitality company in the Grumeti Reserve, Serengeti, Tanzania.The bride graduated from Georgetown and received an M.B.A. from the IE Business School in Madrid. She is also a member of Empowers Africa, a nonprofit organization based in New York that focuses on human empowerment and wildlife conservation. She has also been involved with fund-raising for anti-poaching efforts and the translocation of rhinos from South Africa to Botswana.She is the daughter of Elizabeth Christiansen Gentil and Fernando Bunker Gentil of Greenwich, Conn. The bride’s father retired as a partner in G5 Evercore Private Equity, a firm in São Paulo, Brazil, and is currently a board member of both Taesa, a power distribution company in Brazil, and Alesat, a fuel distribution company there. Her mother, a former banker, is a trustee of Empowers Africa. She was a founder of the Georgetown Scholarship Program, which supports first-generation students. The bride is a great-granddaughter of the late Ellsworth Bunker, the United States ambassador to Argentina, Italy, Nepal and South Vietnam.The groom received an undergraduate diploma in nature conservation from the Tswane University of Technology in Pretoria, South Africa, where he is currently studying for a postgraduate degree in conservation.He is a son of Catherine Ann Hickson of Westville, South Africa, and Graham Neville Hickson of Gauteng, South Africa. The groom’s father is a film director and producer in Johannesburg, South Africa. He was first assistant director on both the 1995 documentary, “Cry, the Beloved Country,” and the 2011 documentary “Black Butterflies.” The groom’s mother is a master sailor in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. She is also a project manager for South Africa Sailing, a sports federation and national member authority under World Sailing. The groom is a stepson of Sandra de Witt. His stepmother retired as a creative director with an advertising firm in Johannesburg.The couple met in 2012 when the bride was on a safari in Kruger Park in South Africa. The groom was already working there as a safari guide and staying in the same lodge as the bride.Anusha Deshpande and Jason Auerbach were married May 5 at the Inn at Serenbe Farms, a lodge in Chattahoochee Hills, Ga. The marriage was officiated by Judge Frank M. Hull, a senior judge on the United States Circuit Court, and was followed by a religious ceremony conducted by Vaibhav Sathe, a Hindu priest.Ms. Deshpande, 30, works in Menlo Park, Calif., as a product marketing manager for Facebook, where her focus is in video monetization. She graduated cum laude from Harvard, from which she also received an M.B.A.Ms. Deshpande is a daughter of Sheila K. Deshpande and Rajiv M. Deshpande of Atlanta. The bride’s parents are the founders of Pulseworks, a virtual reality and entertainment company in Atlanta, of which Mr. Deshpande is the chief executive.The groom, 32, works in New York as a vice president of Two Sigma Investments, an investment management company with headquarters in New York. He graduated from Stanford, from which he also received a master’s degree in computer science.The groom is a son of Dorothy A. Auerbach and Robert Auerbach of Boulder, Colo. The groom’s mother retired as an office administrator for her husband’s private law practice in Auckland, New Zealand. She previously worked as an educator in New York, where she trained elementary schoolteachers. The groom’s father retired as the owner of his private practice, which specialized in international business agreements.The couple met in 2015 on the dating app Coffee Meets Bagel.Elizabeth Bradstreet Foster and Tyrone Oliver Gayle were married May 5 at the Septenary Winery at Seven Oaks Farm in Charlottesville, Va. Senator Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, officiated.The bride, 27, is a military legislative assistant in Washington for Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington State. She graduated from Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.She is the daughter Margaret F. Riley of Charlottesville and the late David W. Foster. She is the stepdaughter of Richard Riley Jr. The bride’s mother is a professor of law at the University of Virginia School of Law. Her stepfather is a partner of Foley & Lardner, a law firm in Washington.The groom, 30, is the press secretary in Washington for Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California. He graduated from Clemson University.He is the son of Ann Gayle and Dr. Michael O. Gayle of Jacksonville, Fla. The groom’s mother is a nurse at the Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville. His father is the chief of pediatric critical care at Wolfson Children’s Hospital, also in Jacksonville.The couple met in Richmond, Va., in 2012 while each worked on a political campaign. At the time, the bride was working for President Obama’s re-election campaign and the groom for Mr. Kaine’s Senate campaign.Rebecca Hope Greenbaum and Jacob Paik Goodhart are to be married May 6 at the Liberty Warehouse, an events space in Brooklyn. Rabbi Rachel Timoner is to officiate.The bride and groom met at Skidmore College, from which they each graduated, she magna cum laude, he cum laude.The bride, 28, will be known as Ms. Greenbaum-Goodhart. She works in New York as a dancer with the Jamal Jackson Dance Company, and as a private Pilates instructor. The bride received a master’s degree in dance from N.Y.U.The bride is a daughter of Linda R. Greenbaum and David Greenbaum of Brooklyn. The bride’s parents work in Brooklyn as independent real estate developers. They own and manage primarily brownstones and townhouses.The groom, also 28, works in New York as an actor. He has appeared in commercials and television shows, including Showtime’s “The Affair” and ABC’s “Forever,” and is also the manager of ZviDance, a dance company in New York.The groom is a son of Esther Paik-Goodhart of Demarest, N.J., and Alan L. Goodhart of Bergenfield, N.J. The groom’s mother works as a Hebrew schoolteacher at several locations in Bergen County. His father is a construction manager for Silver Rail Construction, a contracting firm in New York.The couple met while dancing at Skidmore, where they first performed together in 2008, in the ballet “La Sylphide.”Virginia Shubik Sweeney and Bartram Cary Nason were married May 4 in a civil ceremony at the Buncombe County Courthouse in Asheville, N.C. Joseph C. Knight, a magistrate in Asheville, officiated. On May 5, the couple had another ceremony at Lake Eden Events in Black Mountain, N.C., led by William Hood, an art history professor who was the bride’s mentor in college.Ms. Sweeney, 30, is the coordinator of museum interpretation, writing and producing audio and video interpretive media, for the High Museum of Art in Atlanta. She graduated from Columbia and received a master’s degree in the history of art from Williams College.She is the daughter of Anna Shubik Sweeney and Paul D. Sweeney of Chester, Conn. The bride’s father provides consulting services for the crane, lifting and rigging equipment industries; his office is in New London, Conn. Her mother is a lawyer in private practice in Chester.Mr. Nason, 35, is a documentary video producer in Atlanta. He graduated from Indiana University. He is also a director, volunteer adviser and mentor at Vox Teen Communications, a nonprofit news outlet for teenagers in Atlanta. In 2006, the groom performed as a touring member with the band Panic! at the Disco, playing the cello, keyboards and percussion.He is the son of Eva Cary Nason of Atlanta and the late Marshall R. Nason. The groom’s father had been the associate dean for student affairs at Oglethorpe University, which is in Brookhaven, Ga.The couple met in Atlanta in 2012 through OkCupid.Adrienne Elizabeth Watson and William Read Jennings were married May 5 at Newfields, formerly known as the Indianapolis Museum of Art. The Rev. Brian Shivers, a Presbyterian minister, officiated.The bride, 30, works in Washington as the deputy communications director for the Democratic Party and director of its war room, used for political planning, strategizing and project management. She previously served as a spokeswoman for Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. She graduated from Indiana University.She is the daughter of Terry Watson and Dr. Nicholas H. Watson of Carmel, Ind. The bride’s father retired as a dentist in Carmel. Her mother, who is also retired, was a dental hygienist in Carmel.The groom, 34, directs public engagement for PredictIt, a real-money political-prediction market headquartered in Washington. He graduated from the University of Arkansas and did press advance for President Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns. He is also a drummer with the Invisibles, a Washington-based rock band.The groom’s mother manages government relations at Arkansas Children’s Hospital. His father is a senior vice president for wealth management at Simmons Bank in Little Rock, Ark.The couple met in 2015 in Washington through the groom’s sister-in-law.Millicent Melissa Souris and the Rev. Vincent Robert Anderson are to be married May 6 in Brooklyn. The Rev. Ann M. Kansfield, a minister of the United Church of Christ, is to officiate at Crest Hardware and Urban Garden Center.Ms. Souris, 44, is a cook at St. John’s Bread and Life, a soup kitchen in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, and also runs a culinary job-training program there. She is the author of “How to Build a Better Pie” (Quarry Books, 2012). She graduated from Oberlin College.She is a daughter of Sally V. Snell of Cockeysville, Md., and the late Bobby Souris. The bride’s mother is a partner in Recognition Consultants, which develops and installs signage recognizing financial contributions to institutions, in Cockeysville. Her father ran the family bar, Souris’ Saloon, which is in Towson, Md. The bride is also a stepdaughter of the late William Snell.Mr. Anderson, 47, is a musician who has a regular Monday gig with his band, the Love Choir, at Union Pool, a bar in Brooklyn. He is also an ordained minister of the Revolution Church, a nondenominational Christian church, and is the director for arts and community development at Bushwick Abbey, an Episcopal congregation in Brooklyn. He graduated from the University of the Pacific.He is a son of Maurine A. Anderson of Fresno, Calif., and the late Robert C. Anderson. The groom’s mother retired as an evaluator for the gifted and talented education program in the public schools of Fresno. His father retired as a copy machine salesman for Savin in Fresno.Ms. Kansfield introduced the couple in 2013, at her church in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn. They instantly recognized each other, having met 10 years earlier when the Mr. Anderson submitted a self-released CD to the independent record distributor in Chicago at which Ms. Souris worked. “She’d helped me book a show on tour,” he said. Ms. Souris said that she remembers being intrigued when she met him. “I was just kind of taken with this concept of dirty gospel and a bourbon-drinking reverend,” she said. “A beautiful weirdo.”Claudia Elisabeth Gelfond and Cameron James Roche were married May 5 at the Ritz-Carlton in Washington. The Rev. William R. Cochran, a nondenominational Christian minister, officiated.Mrs. Roche, 26, is a research fellow, studying coastal resilience and environmental policy, in Washington, for the University of Alaska, Fairbanks. She graduated from Amherst College and received a master’s degree in environmental engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.She is a daughter of Linda R. Stein and Richard L. Gelfond, both of New York. Her father is the chief executive, in New York, of the IMAX Corporation, the Canadian theater entertainment company.Mr. Roche, 27, is a senior research analyst in the Rosslyn, Va., office of Gartner, a technology research firm. He graduated from Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., and received a master’s degree in political science from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.He is a son of Robin R. Roche and James P. Roche of Shrewsbury, Mass. The groom’s mother retired as a behavioral aide at Mary Finn Elementary School in Southborough, Mass. His father is a founder of the DBR Group, an employee benefit and actuarial consulting firm in Framingham, Mass.The couple met on OkCupid in 2013, when both were living in Amherst, Mass.Mollie Ruth Miller and Paul Dennehy Glenn were married May 5 at Brooklyn Botanic Garden. Katelyn Kirnan, a friend of the couple who became a minister with the American Marriage Ministries for the event, officiated.Mrs. Glenn, 30, is a handbag designer in New York for Trebbianno. She graduated with a bachelor of fine arts degree in printmaking and photography from Cornell and also received an associate degree in fashion design from Parsons School of Design.She is a daughter of Emily Grabel Miller and Dr. John I. Miller of New York. The bride’s father, a neurosurgeon, is the chief of neurosurgery at Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center and an assistant professor of neurosurgery at NYU Langone Hospital, both in Brooklyn. He is also a partner of Neuroaxis Neurosurgical Associates in Kew Gardens, Queens. The bride’s mother is an adjunct English instructor at the City College of New York.Mr. Glenn, also 30, is a senior data analyst in Brooklyn for Vice Media. He graduated from Dartmouth and received a master’s degree in information management and systems from the University of California, Berkeley.He is a son of Nora Dennehy and Gary Glenn, both of Grosse Pointe, Mich. The groom’s mother is a stand-up comedian in Detroit. His father is a lawyer at the Detroit law firm Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone.The couple met on the streets of Williamsburg, Brooklyn, in December 2013.Advertisement