AdvertisementSupported byWordplayBy Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUPZLE — I loved solving this so much it was physically painful!We on the Wordplay team can enthuse on most things, but animals are tops in my book and writing up this grid by Matthew Sewell put my mind in that particular state a fan gets in when its blades are whirring so quickly they appear to stay still. There are just so many illustrious good dogs.I fought the urge to include too many references, and lost. I would like you to know though that at The Times we have the technology to make all these videos autoplay, with sound, on a loop, simultaneously. So I really spared you, in the grand scheme of things.Even if you’re not a “dog person” (or cats — we also love cats), I hope you have fun figuring out Mr. Sewell’s scheme here. I always appreciate the skill it takes to craft these tricks! On Wednesday I loved the parallel parking theme even though I’m not so into cars; it’s not often that we get the double luxury of fine crafting plus personally delightful subject matter.Today’s challenge is to find five furry vagabonds. Each is hiding in a clue, and each also has an anxious companion or family entered elsewhere in the diagram. The clue that hides the runaway is blind — no reference to the theme — but contains shaded or circled squares to reveal the escapee’s location in the entry. The other clue, which calls for the familial entry, does give information intended to help you determine which rover you seek.This all might seem a bit obscure at first glance, and my explanation as clear as mud, but if you were able to solve the northwestern-most clue, 1A, the theme would have been further revealed to you: LOST DOG.I’m loathe to spoil any of them; there are only five, they’re all world famous, and they’ve all appeared as entries in the Times puzzle, over the years, thousands of times. So I interspersed clips of each marvelous mutt here, but figured I’d give you one example of what you’ve got to do to solve this, from soup to nuts. I chose this one because the clue that holds the name was unique, itself a debut.So, take 64A: “Last seen with a red-haired girl. If found, call ___ [see 119-across].” There are plenty of famous carrot tops, but I’m hard pressed to come up with a Titian/terrier combo, which is what we’re looking for — the red-haired girl is the one the dog was last seen with. The only one I can think of is Annie, or LITTLE ORPHAN ANNIE. Her dog is SANDY, and he is hidden somewhere in 119A, as indicated by the main clue.119A seems perfectly irrelevant down there in the southeast: “Algebraic variables.” But the answer is XS AND YS. Sandy trivia: The same pup played Sandy in the original “Annie” on Broadway for its nearly six-year run, and merited his own substantial obituary in The Times.26A: I think that “Power up?” is such a fresh clue for a very common filler word, ELECT. This phrase seems youthful, and makes me think of cheerful super heroes who always have one more super duper turbo mode just when you think all is lost. It would work as a “get out the vote” slogan, come to think of it.Would you ever vote for a dog? Cormorant, Minn., population 1,039*, has a dog mayor — Duke.39A: This could have been quite simple to some solvers, but I had never really thought beyond cap and gown for “Graduation attire,” and considered REGALIA to be more for military ceremonies. Do dogs get regalia when they graduate from higher education? What about canine conscripts at military ceremonies? Yes, they do!80A: This was hat-tipped by Mr. Sewell as a good clue and I agree, if just for the trivia appeal and cleverness. I don’t watch these crazy talent shows — there are too many (and way too few dog acts) — but I did know that Paula ABDUL was a judge on “American Idol.” As far as I know this show has regrettably considered only humans as idol material in America. If you venture from our borders, you can fall down a YouTube chasm of infinity lined with international dog sensations; this “dressage chiens” is particularly riotous.There’s also a little local show called “America’s Got Talent” that has some very schmaltzy stuff on it, like Simon Cowell. Plenty of great animal acts but I could not look away from this one:A little more trivia: Since 1993, this entry has appeared 19 times in the Times puzzle; in all but two cases the clue has referred to Paula. Before 1993, the entry was nearly always clued as “The Bulbul Amir.” And Lew Alcindor, aka Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, made the cut only once.92A: I figured out Milton Berle’s theme song, NEAR YOU, on the crosses. Actually! I thought I had figured out Milton Berle’s theme song, “Dear You”; the letter in question, that N for the D I had to switch to get this puzzle right, changed 72D, “Marriage announcement” from “Bands” to BANNS. I’ll be amazed if this didn’t trip up a heck of a lot of people. Wouldn’t wedding bands signify a marriage? What the heck is a BANN? See below.Oh, I almost forgot, what does Milton Berle have to do with dogs? Elvis!6D: It’s seed-starting season (hurrah!), and soon enough it’ll be too hot to grow spinach outside in New York (boo!). There are a lot of heat-loving, edible approximations for spinach; ORACH is among them.34D: I’d never heard of “Hallux” and needed crosses to get the solution, BIG TOE. The dictionary definition, more specifically, is “a person’s big toe; the innermost digit of the hind foot of vertebrates,” which makes sense since most animals don’t have big toes the way we do. In the spirit of proving that dogs are integral to every facet of our lives, encapsulated in this grid, I did Google “hallux dog.” Don’t click that link if you’re squeamish!62D: I knew the cross of BAJA and AJAR close by and I confidently entered BIOME here, given B as a first letter. I’m not wrong, am I? The world consists of biomes, and most if not all are or will be affected by climate change. It’s just a bit more sweeping term than BAYOU, which is called for here. If you ever find yourself in Monroe, La., you can adopt yourself an actual bayou dog, which could protect you from an alligator, should your climate change enough to attract them. If they did a good enough job, you might not even know!On a related note, that mistaken M from BIOME fell toward the end of 74A, “Food cart offerings.” I had GERMS there for a while; talk about meanspirited. It’s GYROS! My helpmeet loves them and he is currently in the throes of a noisy cold, but there’s coincidence and there’s causality. Do dogs like gyros? If gyro scraps were infectious my dogs would be so sick all the time.72D: My little Waterloo here, I had “bands” and thought it logical, but figured out BANNS eventually. This entry has appeared many times, but it falls in my religious blind spot; the term refers to three successive announcements of a pending nuptial, made at the church where the bride and groom belong. I might remember this term though because I like that the reason for the banns is to make triply sure that nobody’s already married to someone else in the parish.My suggested title for this puzzle was “Gone Grr.” I’d guess that anybody who reads the NYT constructor comments knows that the puzzles are a team effort, and that editorial changes are made in hopes of hitting the right tone and balance for the audience. I’m grateful for all the ways that process improves the final product — in this puzzle, for example, the clue for 80-Across is a great and fun addition to what I submitted (which is to say I wish I’d thought of that).At the same time, the editorially added clue for 73-Down gives me pause. I don’t object to entries or clues that might touch on sex (3/3/18’s NUDE SCENE with the ingenious clue “Hot take?” doesn’t bother me), but I think PLAYMATES in the Playboy sense evokes an infantilizing attitude toward women that is not O.K. I realize that others may respond to the clue differently.I asked if Will would consider changing it, and he replied with a gracious note to the effect that it was too late to revise, and anyway that Playboy Playmates are part of the world, and thus fair game for the puzzle. I understand that point. But insofar as the clues constitute a series of choices about what are interesting, clever, and/or suitable ways to lead to the correct entry, I think there’s some importance to *which* way the puzzle chooses. In this case, it’s not the path I would’ve taken. Wherever solvers might come down on these issues, though, I hope they enjoyed the puzzle, and had fun finding those missing four-legged friends.If you’re tired of digging for the answers to this grid, we shaved them into the side of this Tibetan mastiff.Just kidding! You can take a peek at the answer key here. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?* 2010 census.Advertisement