AdvertisementSupported byWordplayBy Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — Forgive me for repeating myself to the regulars, but for any Sunday-only solvers (or Wordplay readers), this weekend is the 41st annual American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. If you’re interested in seeing how any of your fellow solvers and constructors are doing, there’s lots of information on their site; if you’re interested in a challenge, you can also buy the tournament puzzles to solve online.Our constructor today, Finn Vigeland, is there. We’ve got this one to chew on at home, though. It’s a good one — the theme crept up on me, at least, and I was duly impressed with how slickly the theme answers wove themselves into the grid.Step one: There are six down clues that contain three bubbles in a row. Although the puzzle is of normal diagonal symmetry, these entries aren’t. Three are on the left-hand (west) side of the grid and three are on the right, though, and that’s important.On the west side, the three letters read S-U-N in each case, a setting “sun.” For example, at 58D, the answer is SUNK COST, and the first three letters are circled. On the east side, the three letters are reversed, so the “sun” rises, as in 52D, for one: MENUS.This is pretty cute and simple, and on another day or another place that could’ve been it. I knew enough to look for the next layer of trickery, though, and for a little anxious while I couldn’t find it. But here is step two:For each of these instances, the word “sun” gets used in a phrase that is clued in a corresponding across clue, that runs across to the “S” in “sun,” turns down (in the west) or up (in the east) to the “n,” then turns again, to the right, to finish using a few letters from another across clue. Aaugh, you say?Let’s look at the middle entry on the west side, that uses 58D (SUNK COST) as the source for that necessary “sun.” The across entry that ends in the “s” that starts that “sun” is 56A, “Hollywood labor groups.” I was scratching my head when I deduced that entry to be ACTORS, an incomplete definition to be sure. But then I filled in the entry that used the “n” in that same “sun,” 67A, “2015 hit spinoff of Despicable Me.” This was MINIONS. If you’re looking for labor groups, you’ll see ACTORS UNIONS right there, starting with 56A, the theme clue, ACTORS; turning down at 58D, SUNK COST; and turning right when you meet 67A, MINIONS.I could see the upper west entry being a bit confounding, as out of all of the theme words, 26A on its own — MEGATS — wasn’t a word or a decipherable beginning to any phrase. The rest of the clues broke up a bit more cleanly, but I don’t begrudge Mr. Vigeland this entry, it was just challenging. The rest of the rules to this game were tightly observed.My favorite was the middle right-hand phrase, where “sun” ran upward in the aforementioned MENUS. The clue that ended in the “s” from that sun was 68A, “How someone in awe might describe himself,” and I found no way to make sense of it as I filled out, using crosses, MONKEYS. The clue at 60A was definitely a “tricky” one. I, adult student of plant science and botany, felt pretty smart knowing PEDUNCLE — I can’t imagine that being in most people’s vocabulary, and it’s been in The Times exactly once before, in a 2002 acrostic. Nevertheless, PEDUNCLE is necessary to our second clever phrase. If you read MONKEYS across —> SUN up —> NCLE right, you get MONKEY’S UNCLE. As in, “I’ll be a monkey’s uncle!”As far as cluing, Mr. Vigeland uses a lot of idiom and humor in his entries, most of which I found fresh and fun. I loved the clues for ARMHOLE, REIGN, DEF, DHS, EMAILING, DELETE, EDU, TRIOS, DIME and RYE. I took small issue with UNWED and REAL TALK.22A: A habitual drinker is a ROUNDER, one who makes the rounds (from bar to bar, or drunk tank to tank).48A: I’m sure there’s a crossword-solving ultramarathoner with a couple of grandkids that’s going to look sideways at this clue, although it does own up, at least, to overgeneralizing. This isn’t the first time GRANNIES has been an entry in the puzzle, but it’s previously been clued as “certain knots” rather than “ones in rocking chairs, stereotypically.”54A: This clue, “Start to many bumper stickers,” I HEART it. There aren’t nearly enough I HEART SOMETHING bumper stickers around anymore; was that a phase? We had those magnetic ribbons for every cause known to man, and now I feel like this kind of ornamentation has gotten a lot less common on our cars.88A: There is a beautiful pale jade color that signifies early spring and delicate Asian pottery, called “celadon,” but that didn’t fit here. The answer that did is less satisfying, somehow; TEA GREEN seems like a gotcha to me, since “green tea” is so common in paint company palettes and the like.113A: I misentered “Version” for this one word clue, “Draft.” It clogged up that bottom foot for a few minutes. This is one of those words with a lot of options: soldier’s call up, order at a pub, annual sporting event, kind of horse, or a chilly breeze, as in this case, indicating AIR FLOW. After the last few weeks, in our area at least, this probably should have been the first definition to come to mind.122A: Another botanical reference, TANSIES are in the aster family. They’re the little yellow button flowers that you see growing on the side of the road or in meadows, cute but considered a toxic menace in the United States and not grown in gardens (on purpose).5D: Who would have thought that SAMSUNG a) “means ‘three stars’” and b) is a Times crossword debut? Turns out this ol’ technology giant dates back to 1938, as a company exporting produce and fish to Manchuria and Beijing. The three stars represent prosperity, status and longevity — that last attribute seems facetious, when you’re talking about smartphones.33D: The answer here, TIN HATS, meaning “paranoid sorts, in slang,” seemed to be missing its foil. The slang term refers to people who haberdash themselves with aluminum to prevent some sort of invasive invisible waves from penetrating their skulls and scrambling up their brains. I really hope that we won’t learn one day that Wi-Fi does this, don’t you?44D: The term ACID TEST, meaning an irrefutable evaluation, reoccurs in the puzzle from time to time. This usage stems from old-time metallurgy, when the quality of gold was verified using the touchstone method; nowadays, I think more of Ken Kesey’s parties. Those go back 50 years now too, pretty old-timey. Nostalgia!75D: We’ve been seeing these SpaceX rocket liftoffs lately, and I think they do use T MINUS ZERO at the end of the countdown; T equals time in this phrase. This clue made me think of a wonderful old radio show, “X Minus One,” that’s available now in podcast form. A quick Google search didn’t elucidate what these two terms have in common, in case anyone knows.The seed for this puzzle (and its original title) was “Sunrise, Sunset” — with the eastern theme entires featuring a rising S-U-N, and the western ones featuring a setting S-U-N. It was important to me that none of these entries — whether the across ones or the down answers containing SUN — use that letter string to mean the word “sun.” This was a bit harder than expected! You may notice that I broke a fairly rigid crossword rule in that the theme entries are not symmetrically placed, but it would have been near impossible to do so, given that they each span several rows. I did try to put them in approximately symmetrical locations, for consistency’s sake.Because the themers take up a lot of real estate in both across and down directions, filling this grid was a beast. This is the third draft I submitted, and while I wish there were a bit more room for the grid to breathe, I think it’s free of dreck (REE being the only real gross entry, IMO). Phrases like SUNK COST, PROM DATES, REAL TALK, NERF WAR, and MIC DROP are fun bonus fill. I tried for way too long to get YASQUEEN at 11D (it really almost worked for a long time) but finally let it go when it came at the expense of too much bad fill. I’m quite happy that my original clue on I SEE IT made it through; it feels much more in-the-language than previous methods of cluing that entry (variations of [Response to “Look over there!”]). In general, I like to make my puzzles contemporary and conversational, which I think I’ve accomplished here.Lastly, I’m honored to have a puzzle run on the Sunday of ACPT for the second time! It’s a pretty cool thing to see 600+ of the most avid crossword solvers in the world digging into your puzzle. See you in Stamford!If you’re raging against the dying of the light, let some sunshine in and take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?Advertisement