AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Jon CaramanicaThe beginning of the self-titled debut album by Superorganism unfolds one psychedelic smear after the next: fuzzy white noise, throbbing boom-bap drums, heavily processed vocals, squelchy synthesizers. When the vocals come in, they start as a confusing swirl before resolving into sweet melody. It’s like coming up for air after drowning, except the drowning was a dream.There is warped, whimsical stuff all over “Superorganism,” but none of it is cheeky. In the three years since its inception, and the year since the release of its debut single, this eight-member group — based in London and made up of members from all over the world — has honed a style that’s a rigorous take on D.I.Y., lo-fi indie rock. Its album is a full-spectrum auditory experience, the sound of renegade toys weeping after a bender — curious, saccharine, unsteady and twee, but not weak.It is a wild contrast to the central sound of indie rock from a decade ago — Arcade Fire, LCD Soundsystem and so on — which was anthemic and demanding, as swaggering as any doltish arena rock (insomuch as indie rock was, at all, rock, which it sometimes wasn’t). Back then, the music had a chip on its shoulder, but now the calculus has changed. The internet has given voice and lent strength to interiority, and also undermined seriousness. The result is a new sort of indie rock that is chipper, rinky-dink, self-consciously handmade with discount-store melodies and neon attitude. You hear it in Superorganism, as well as in the earnest cabaret soul of Rex Orange County, and also the bedroom confections of Clairo. Each reflects a movement toward pocket-size eccentricity and charm masking high-test pop perfectionism.On “Superorganism,” this sound manifests in a few ways: the slumpy march of “Everybody Wants to Be Famous,” the music-box waltz of “SPRORGNSM,” the oozing thumps of “Something for Your M.I.N.D.,” which sounds like something from De La Soul’s first album. The arrangements are unclean and confident, though they sometimes slip into messiness (like on “Nai’s March”). But more often, they nod to grand-scale pop, like the “Grease”-style interjections on “Night Time.”There is seriousness of purpose in the music, but what elevates Superorganism beyond sound experiment is the lead singer and lyricist, Orono, who writes arresting offhand verses that convey brutal depths in an unerringly sweet tone.Her peak comes on “Reflections on the Screen,” a regret-filled number about the shortcomings of, and results of being shackled by, technology. She sings matter-of-factly, but in shards, a tale of romantic failing told by an Alexa on low battery:It was never jealousyJust a cute hyperboleIdiocracy, I dreamAnd he’s still keen to chill with meI’ve zoomed in 1080pYour pseudo-smile is so unfreeMuch of this album is like this, full of skepticism of the way technology destabilizes feelings — it’s there in the words, and it’s there in the production. In total, “Superorganism” proposes an answer to the question of how we can preserve the handmade and the irregular in an age of extreme technological sophistication.Something similar is at play in the work of Rex Orange County, a young British lounge-soul singer with a firm grasp on kitsch and devastatingly earnest lyrics. Last year he released his second full-length album, “Apricot Princess,” an innovative modern cabaret landmark (though certainly he would bristle at the thought) that takes in lounge singing, bossa nova, 1960s psychedelia and flashes of jazz.Rex Orange County’s slightly distracted approach to tender singing is indebted to Frank Ocean. (And he is a favorite of Tyler, the Creator, who has been a prime advocate for this style of off-kilter melodic pop.)On his best songs, the singing is imperfect, and the instruments weep and sulk. Take “Untitled,” a suite of plangent guitars and lightly woozy singing:But why can’t I be any other boyThat doesn’t need a hand in love?Someone that I would trustBut how did I failTo give you all the love that you deserve?When you’re the only thing that’s worthWhat life is worthIn addition to that album, he released a pair of singles that refined his style even further, both with nods to the 1970s: “Edition” with its soft-focus funk, and “Loving Is Easy” with its grand, confident singer-songwriter strut. In concert last month at the Bowery Ballroom, he delivered these songs as if assembling them on the spot, a crooner in control of the marionette strings, but not trying to obscure his process.The warmth of that show was reminiscent of another artist who also dabbles in neo-lounge: Clairo, a young electro-pop singer with a suite of entrancing original songs. Her music is blithe and convincing. “Pretty Girl,” over luscious but clinky synths, has equal measure regret and scorn: “I could be a pretty girl, I’ll wear a skirt 4 u/and I could be a pretty girl, shut up when u want me 2.” In the video, as the lyrics scroll across the screen like subtitles, she looks directly into the camera on her computer — her headphones are in her ears — in a manner that underscores the fragility of the productions.“Flamin’ Hot Cheetos” feels like a stripped-down take on Timbaland-era R&B, with flickers of Kitty Pryde-style rapping. On Clairo’s SoundCloud page, songs like “2 Hold U” and “Get With U” display an innate knack for complex emotions rendered so casually as to be destabilizing. Just because the music sounds like the product of toys doesn’t mean it’s to be toyed with.Advertisement