AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkStudents this week had plenty to say, as usual, but we’ve noticed something new: Many students seem to be writing longer comments as well as possibly even revising before submission. Please keep those habits up — we love the way the responses to our writing prompts seem to get better every week.A special hello to new classes from Wisconsin and Winnetonka High School, as well to old friends, like those at a school in St. Cloud, Fla.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted._________Our most popular writing prompt this week was “Should the Voting Age Be Lowered to 16?” More students than we expected thought the voting age should remain the same, despite scientific evidence that, by age 16, the so-called cold cognition skills needed to cast an informed vote are solidly in place. Those who did answer in the affirmative were enthusiastic and passionate.Michelle from Rockville wonders if family views have an influence:I am a 16 year old who feels strongly about politics, but I don’t think the voting age should be lowered. At 16, teens are highly impressionable and easily succumb to peer pressure. Someone might vote for a candidate just because their friends or parents like them. Even though the article says that teens have the cognitive ability to make informed decisions, I still believe that the majority of 16 year old’s would not make individual decisions. I consider myself a democrat, and I feel strongly about my views, but would I still feel the same way if my parents weren’t democrats as well? I can’t help wondering what I would be like if I was raised in a conservative household. Would I have the same views?Laura Armedaris from Washington, D.C., said younger teens were more than capable:I’m 15 years old and I know several people that are 16/17 and are far more educated than some people over 18. If the question is if we are capableI believe we are, we are not stupid and especially with social media lots of us are involved with politics sharing our opinions but it hardly means anything when we can’t even vote. We are giving political speeches at our walkouts, emailing congress, writing letters and marching for justice, we are more than capable to voteSammie from California said lowering the voting age would give more teens an opportunity:Teenagers today are much more exposed to politics thanks to the internet. They can follow it and form opinions on it easily because it’s at their fingertips. If they’re passionate about the issue being voted upon then they should be able to take part in the decision making. Teenagers aren’t oblivious to what’s going on in their country anymore and want to take some kind of action. Lowering the voting age would give the younger people of America opportunities to be apart of the community political-wise.Prashamsha Rayamajhi from Danvers, Mass., said both sides have merit:I think that both sides have equally convincing evidence. On the one hand, 16 year olds are still young, and barely forming their own political opinions. Many don’t know what to believe in, and many others like to live in ignorance of political issues. However, time and time again, we have seen teenagers age 16 or 17 achieve amazing feats. In regards to the Florida shooting, the “children” are the ones moving for change in a broken system, when adults refuse to do so. Teenagers this age are full of hope; they are passionate and strong-willed, and some apply these qualities to political issues as well. Even though both sides make sense, I believe that the voting age should be lowered to age 16. In these times, children are maturing much faster. There are many sixteen year olds with more rational and sophisticated opinions than adults. Also, I think that although sixteen year olds may just be forming informed political opinions, they should have a say in issues that drastically affect their lives, like gun violence. And overall, younger people are the future of the world. Change usually comes from the younger generation.Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts thinks younger teenagers would vote how their parents do:As a 16 year old myself, I do not think that the voting age should be lowered to 16. While I do accept that 16 and 17 year olds are able to make rational decisions using “cold” cognition in a low-pressure situation such as voting, I do not think that their scientific capability to make choices should make them eligible to vote. The primary reason that I am opposed to 16 and 17 year olds being able to vote is that they are not yet legal adults. For the majority of teens, this means that they are under the care and control of their parents. While a huge population of young people is interested in current events and politics, and stays up to date on unbiased views of various topics, there are still large numbers of 16 to 17 year olds whose only knowledge of political controversy comes from their parents. Many young people have been fed their parents’ ideas since birth, and when living at home have no source of outside knowledge. If teens who are not yet legal adults and therefore not yet independents are able to vote, I think that a large portion of this age group’s voters would simply vote however their parents tell them to.Bryce Hilton from the United States thinks the answer is an easy one:Go to a high school and interview 3 random 16 year olds. Ask them current political questions. 2 out of the 3 will have no clue what you’re talking about. Enough said.Daniel Gonzalez from St. Cloud, Fla., thinks the research in the article is incomplete:The status quo must be maintained due to the fact that elections aren’t always “cold cognition” scenarios. Elections have been well known to be hectic with the emphasis of political and public pressure being based on the choice of the individual, therefore the brain relies on “hot cognition” since the would-be voter is being pressured by peers and organizations. Studies have already shown that at 16 the part of the brain that processes “hot cognition” is not fully developed and makes them more susceptible to emotional outbursts and the bias in decisions that follows, especially when a presidential candidate tries to poke at emotions to rally people together. This part of the brain is more developed in a 21 year old and is less likely (not never) to vote based on emotions.Analy from St. Cloud would vote if the age were lowered:If the voting age were to be lowered to 16, I would vote. Many of the decisions that voters decide on now are what teenagers enter once they are considered “adults”. College students, just as high school students, have the same ability to be swayed by their peers and are quick to make impulsive decisions if they are unaware of the topic. If voters are voting on education, being a student, I wouldn’t want a 60 year old high school drop out making decisions on what will occur with my education. Also, how come we can register to vote at 16, yet not be able to vote? In order to register, I believe that some sort of maturity and responsibility is needed simply to reach out and desire to vote in the future.Anthe Dalkouras from Danvers thinks most 16-year-olds are not ready to vote:I do not agree with the writer’s stance that the voting age should be lowered from eighteen to sixteen. At this age I do believe that some 16-year olds are capable of making these political decisions on what to vote for, but that does not pertain to most. At this age there are many 16-year-olds who do not pay attention to current events and what is happening in politics. Also, that they truly do not have a grasp on the meaning of the events. If I was able to vote at 17, I do not believe that I would because I do not necessarily pay attention to government actions unless I am talking about it in one of my classes. Also, 16-year-olds are not a legal adult yet so they are still living at home listening to their parents opinions. This could sway them in one direction instead of making their own decision on what to vote for. I believe that the younger audience is easier to direct in one direction by feeding them false information about a certain topic. Many have not been exposed to the harsh world of politics and what occurs in order to win votes. High school students are still able to have a voice even if they are not allowed to vote. There are the high school students from the school shooting in Florida speaking out on their opinions of gun control and what should happen to control it. These students are making a difference even though they do not have the right to vote.Aizik Van Horne from Tempe says teenagers need and deserve a voting voice:I believe that the voting age should be lowered. Teenagers voices should be heard and people think that our opinions are unimportant and they look over them. Teenagers are close to being adults and expect to be safe during that period of time. When a gun is easier to get that a drivers license that is unacceptable. Gun laws should be raised to be stricter and more efficient than letting people get guns with disorders and mental disabilities. We expect to be safe and not have rampaging people with guns running around and killing people. Even if we are not adults our opinions should be heard!!!!!!!!!Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington, N.C., said 16-year-olds were too young, plain and simple:Should 16-year-olds be able to vote, let me take a moment to laugh. The issue with that is, we’re kids. It might sting some to be called that, but that is because it’s true. We aren’t as focused or passionate on politics to make specific decisions that could affect the country as a whole. Sure, this can deal a lot with gun-control and drugs, but a few hundred thousand teens still aren’t loud enough to reach the government. NRA, they control what happens with guns because they have the time, money, and power to toy with whatever they want. Drugs, I don’t think we need to see a bunch of stoned kids walking around campus just because “it’s legal”. Besides, most of us will just bandwagon off of somebody else’s idea of society because we don’t want to understand. Our job as student is to study so we can have a greater education that the generation before us, so we have a chance to make this country better for those who come after us.Solomon from Saco, Me., answered affirmatively:I agree with the writer’s proposal to lower the voting age to 16. School shootings are happening more often then they should, so there needs to be an end to them. Having kids that are of the age of 16 and are in school would be a perfect time for them to start voting because when the kids are in school they would know what to vote on._________Our Picture Prompt “Dogs of Instagram” led commenters to discuss their own pet’s Instagram worthiness, or lack of it.Emma Claire Lisk from Wilmington, N.C., thinks the pet Instagram market is overcrowded:When I was in fifth grade, I made an Instagram account for my five pound Yorkie, Lulu. Now, five years ago, Instagram was not as it is today with the concept of “high quality = high amount of likes.” I uploaded photos of Lulu going on walks to chase after squirrels and videos of her attacking the obnoxious pool cleaner. With a little help from hashtags, a couple hundred people started to follow this lovable ball of fur. And that was the height of Lulu’s Instagram career. Years passed, the social media algorithm changed. You could take the most aww-dorable pictures like @chloekardoggian, or come up with the most clever captions like @itsdougthepug, or take the funniest pictures of your dog in clothes like @poochofnyc, but in reality it all comes down to luck when it comes to getting your picture seen, no matter how many hashtags. And that all has to do with the fact that the market is overcrowded. Even if you believe you have taken the cutest and creative photo of your pet, it’s guaranteed that someone else has already done just that. Rewind a couple years, then yes, gaining likes and follows would merely be based on “special talents and signature style.” But in today’s day in age, if you want your pooch to be a “pet-influencer,” — how do I put this nicely — it’s not gonna happen.Sadie Gaffin from Providence, R.I., says social media accounts for animals are humorous:Social media accounts for animals are some of my favorite pages to scroll through because they are so adorable and always make me laugh. My dog is one that also always makes me laugh but I do not think she should have her own social media page. She is funny and exciting in person, but she is extremely difficult to catch on camera. That being said, to be star material, an animal must do comical things, or other notable actions, and allow cameras to capture their moments. The moments also must draw attention from more people than just the owners of the animal. The pages are usually funny or heartwarming, and I am very glad they are in existence.Garrett Brian Geschickter from Wilmington, N.C., thinks his pets pass the test:I feel like both of my dogs could be Instagram stars. I have two rescue dogs, both considered to be mutts. The youngest and littlest one being Sandy, a big eyed, silky coated, attention seeker. The other one being my oldest dog. His name is Piper. He’s an older, strong, pincher mutt with a bad knee but with more energy than he knows what to do with at his age. Both of my dogs love being around my family and myself 24/7, often doing quirky and cute things in order to get their way. Sandy is just photogenic, often lying around and sleeping in adorable positions. While Piper, all he wants to do is run around and to go explore the neighborhood. I feel that with how well behaved both of them are, they would make excellent social media stars. I feel like because both Sandy and Piper are rescues and mutts, they would automatically be loved by anyone who came across their adorable faces, just like the article said. Step aside purebreds! The mutts are taking over the show!Maddie Leber from Wilmington, N.C., is certain her pet wouldn’t pose:Instagram accounts featuring dogs have become increasingly popular in the past few years, and after reading the article I can tell you, without a doubt, that my dog is not Instagram worthy. Humans tend to favor dogs that look like them, which is why one of the most popular dog Instagram accounts is for a pug and the most popular dog breeds include Golden Retrievers, Bulldogs, Huskies, Beagles and more. My dog is the opposite. Bella wasn’t a rescue, but the money we bought her with went into getting surgery for a sick dog who wasn’t being adopted because of a knee injury. She’s a Dachshund Border Collie mix (I know, weird.) and she’s infuriatingly annoying. She has horrible attachment issues, won’t do what she’s told, and even though she’s a small dog, can somehow get the food left on the counter. All this with being pretty smart. We keep her in a crate when we leave for school so she doesn’t chew anything up and she has learned to automatically go in her cage in the mornings so we forget to lock it, and she has free roam of the entire house for 7 hours. She also gets in the trash. We turn the can around so she can’t get inside but she still happens to make a mess. But I have to admit, she is adorable. So maybe she could become Instagram famous, if only we could get her to pose for a picture._________Responses to our Student Opinion prompt “Do You Think You Might Like Communal Living When You’re an Adult?” were as varied as the individuals who replied.Caroline from Texas thinks the idea is a dream:The Starcity arrangements detailed here sound like a dream — you can live comfortably with your friends, a lower rent, and in a thriving city! There seems to be no wrong, except that you have to share your living space with others. But that doesn’t seem so bad compared to the upsides, and it actually might be a plus. I’ve always particularly liked the idea of living in places that are strange but ideal — daydreams about living on furnished and futuristic ceilings, cozy 50 square feet apartments, and empty shopping malls to come home to fill my head often. There’s something about deciding what your life can be like and how you can make it feel good that entices me, and choosing to live in a dorm like this is no exception. This echoes the kind of living I want to do, with traits that contrast the home I live in now. With this, housing with others sounds perfect. Even if it’s not exactly like this, with Starcity perfection, the independence that emanates from such an experience is appealing. I think I really would like communal living when I grow up.Bella Cankurtaran from Wilmington, N.C., said communal living was not for her:I go to school surrounded by classmates and faculty, at work there are my coworkers and boss, and then out in the town are countless strangers. At the end of the day I come home to a house full of three other people. Where is my alone time? I feel the most pleasurable thing about being adult is enduring the busy day and then getting to retreat to a quiet house where you are free to be yourself and get work done without distractions. Sharing a small space with another person might save a grand amount of money and help with social advances, but it won’t give me the personal time I crave at the end of each day.Tanisha K. from Texas says time will tell:I think this is a brilliant idea to implement, especially in expensive urban areas similar to San Francisco. Many middle class workers don’t make enough to pay for adequate housing in trustworthy facilities and eventually they might have to just give up and move to a cheaper place. I’m not certain if I as a person would live in one of these communal housing buildings because though it might sound unpleasant at first, the positive community and being able to meet with new people really agree with me. In the end, my conclusion is this, if I ever found myself in a ridiculously expensive city with no stable income, I would most likely live in these dorms. Additionally, I would definitely have no problem adjusting as I would have probably already experienced communal living in college and am a generally social person. I don’t like living alone so this setup may actually benefit me in the future. We’ll just have to see.Leslie Espinoza from Fresno, Calif., loves the idea of dorm living for adults:I personally would love the opportunity to live in a communal housing. I enjoy people. And I enjoy compromising and learning more about others. I have been raised in a fairly large family, so in my house, it basically feels as if I live in a communal housing unit with just a bit more privacy. I find it comforting knowing that if I need someone to talk to, or want to eat with someone, that there is always someone around. I believe that Starcity is creating something wonderful. It allows people who are normally alone to feel connected and as if they have a place.Victoria Jackson from Wilmington, N.C., is of two minds about the topic:Initially, when I saw the words “communal living” I thought “no way” could I ever live like that! I’m the kind of person who doesn’t do well with living and sharing space with others (of course other than my family). This thought has been proven true over and over again when I come home from sleepovers that I regret. It’s not that I don’t enjoy the company of others, I just have a certain way that I do things and anything that disrupts those certain things drives me nuts. However, after reading the article and seeing how much tenants such as Ms. Shiver and Ms. Ndrepepaj enjoy the space and being around other tenants, maybe I would learn to love Starcity. I love how everyone gets their own room but others areas are shared. My bedroom is the one place that I would need to be solely my own and private, so I appreciate the fact that it was made to be personal for everyone. Ms. Ndrepepaj alluded to the fact that having the shared space allows for everyone to get to know each other, resulting in friendships or rather a sense of family. Compared to my situation right now, I think it’d be nice to actually know my neighbors name and have a genuine conversation lasting longer than “how are you” and an awkward shuffle for my door._________Our Student Opinion question  “Should Prisons Offer Incarcerated People Education Opportunities?” elicited thoughtful and compassionate responses.Most students, like Gavin Dryden from Wisconsin, thought that prisons should offer education programs:I think it’s a great idea for incarcerated individuals in our society to have a chance to better themselves educationally. These prisoners have been cast out and sent to “correctional facilities” to essentially sit and wait for their sentence to be served. With education opportunities, they would be ready to return to society and participate in a positive way. Many could use these opportunities to really turn their lives around.Hayley from DeArmond agreed, and used sound logic to support her opinion:Higher education is the most direct way to resolving our prison crisis. Although a 43% lower likelihood of recidivism and a 13% higher likelihood of getting a job after leaving prison does not mean all prisoners will improve, higher education causing less recidivism and a more peaceful environment can save prisons a vast amount of money. I also believe that a more college environment for prisoners would help, as it too would encourage good behavior and help with returning to society; although I fear that a difference in views on what places such as Germany (with lower recidivism and prison costs) see as learning how to fit in society, the United States sees as punishment for the wrong done in society and nothing more. One would think that decreasing private prisons, increasing psychological help, and increasing education opportunities would cost more, but by implementing these changes prisons would likely decrease in population over time — to an extent — and result in spending less on prisons. No matter what, there is a problem with prisons, and education looks like a promising part to the answer.Sesha Patel from Wilmington, N.C., believes that prisons are meant to rehabilitate criminals, and that education is the key to doing so:There’s no doubt that prisons are necessary atmospheres in society. A consequence for a greater punishment. But should that mean that inmates can’t even obtain a proper education? Sure, they’ve committed crimes and most of them are in there for the correct reason, but isn’t the main goal for them to come out rehabilitated and able to integrate back into society? Integrating a college program into prisons would further this process and even be better for communities in the long run. When an individual goes to any type of school, they learn, and as the article states, this gives a better understanding of the world and allows them to become more empathetic. These are qualities many incarcerated peoples either lack or have learned to ignore. It is also a fact that many prisoners come from poor backgrounds with little to no education. Then they resort to crime and other means to make a living. In no way is this acceptable, but having college classes in prison would help them make up for their missed education. So once these prisoners got out of jail, they could give back to their community through the work force and use their newly-obtained education for the betterment of the world.Bradly Boaz from Wilmington, N.C., however, thought prisons were intended to punish people:Since the creation of jails in the year 1790, these closed in barriers were invented to punish criminals for their actions - some more extreme than others. I just can’t get this idea of education in jails past my head, because it completely defeats the purpose of a jail, prison or however one may refer to it as. If jails are intended to punish, then why reward criminals with the power of literature and studies, something every criminal had access to before they decided that taking drugs or killing people took priority over studies? Yes, educating criminals may teach them life lessons that they can apply to their lives when they are released, but what about the people who deserve actual punishment for their actions and are instead treated with reading, writing and debating? That doesn’t sound like much of a punishment to me, nevertheless taking place where punishment is the sole purpose. I am not all against the idea of educating prisoners with lesser crimes because, as the article states, “inmates who took classes had a 43 percent lower likelihood of recidivism and a 13 percent higher likelihood of getting a job after leaving prison.” I just believe that we as a nation are too afraid to give the punishment criminals deserve, and that educating them is only covering up their crimes and the hardship they have caused to the victims in the world.Logan B. from Wilmington replied to Bradly’s comment with a counterpoint:I disagree, yes most prisons are meant to punish the person that has committed the crime but they are also supposed to rehabilitate the inmates who have made mistake in the past. Education is a great way to do this. Many prisons offer different types of classes such as business and social-studies and some even offer the ability to get your high school diploma. Just because a person has done something wrong in their past that they regret does not mean they shouldn’t be able to learn new things and explore new careers for when they eventually get out of prison. Also, being able to learn and take classes in jail does not take away from the fact that a person is in prison. The person still is only able to see their family a few times a week, they cannot use the internet freely, and they have awful living conditions, prison will always be prison, we will always take away a prisoner’s right to go to the outside world, but that doesn’t mean we should take away their right to learn.Hayley from DeArmond added to the thread with an alternative way of thinking about the prison system:I would argue that if “covering up” crimes with education works then why not use it? Punishment in prisons exists as negative reinforcement for avoiding crime, however as research shows it does not work well enough. Education in prisons serves the same purpose: encourage the avoidance of further crime.Theodore Mehovets from Chicago argued that offering inmates a free education was unfair:I do not disagree that our prison system is flawed but I don’t think college level education for incarcerated people is the best choice. I am a high school student and I have an older brother in college. The biggest thing I’ve learned about getting an education is that it’s expensive and needs to be earned. I spend all of my time thinking about my resume and hearing my brother complain about the debt he is in. Now people are saying that incarcerated people have an easier gate to education. I cannot imagine a world where students get denied from college because a murderer has taken their spot or someone living in a pile of debt that they could have avoided if they had robbed a bank.So tell me Ms. Hilton, why should prisoners be rewarded with education for their crimes while students are punished after working hard all their lives?Thomas Higgins from Wilmington, N.C., summed up the political tension that makes prison reform so difficult:In our ever divided country very few issues are as divisive as our prison system. Many like to think that prison should be about “hard time” that they are paying their dues to society for the crimes that they have committed. Maybe instead of this “hard time” philosophy we should look more to rehabilitation something that will help out entire nation. If we can make the 2.2 million people that are incarcerated and reform even a quarter through education problems that could not only help make more good members of our community, but help cut down on the billions we spend each year on prisons and welfare programs once these prisoners are out of prison._________Our Picture Prompt “Family Tree” showed us that students are intensely interested in their own past.Emiko Andrews from Wilmington, N.C., has traced family history to many countries:Researching my ancestry is one of my favorite things to do; I am completely fascinated by my heritage, genealogy, and genetics. Being able to know more about the ancestors that came before me and how I came to be is very important to me, and I’m sure many people feel the same. As for my family tree, I have traced most of my ancestry back to Great Britain, Japan, and Ireland, though I know of some German, Belgian, and Spanish ancestry as well! Even though it’s nice to know your history, I’m certainly glad that modern technology and transportation have aided us in forming more diverse relationships outside of local gene pools, and I hope this genetic diversity can lead to a decrease in birth defects and genetic diseases.Denislav Kasaivanov from Wilmington, N.C., loves looking back at his Mongolian-Slavic family history:For as long as humans have walked the Earth, ancestry has been a major focal point in many cultures; ranging from the filial piety of the Chinese to the ‘pure’ blood-line of the Habsburgs of Austria. To me, heritage is much more than a couple names on a piece of paper. It is the recollection of hundreds of years of blood-lines — with geographic relocation, intermarriage, isolation and many other factors in the mix that ultimately determine “why” you are where you are today. As author Steph Yin says, learning about ancestries provides “opportunities”, be that ranging from the probability of certain family members contracting diseases to finding cures for life-risking illnesses. Simply, there is much more good to find in trekking through the past than haphazardly ignoring the makeup of your ancestral motherhood. Personally, I love looking back at my family and peoples’ history as it is an extremely diverse one. Bulgaria, the country which I have been born/raised in, has been conquered (and regrettably enslaved and killed) by the Byzantines, Greeks, Turks, and Romans. We are deemed to be a migratory Mongolic-Slavic peoples, sharing roots from Central Asia and Eastern Europe alike. It’s amusing to try to figure out what I am, as I share Mongol ancestry through one part of my family and Slavic through the other. I enjoy how I can assimilate into both cultures and be proud of my origins, however historically disenfranchised or glorified they may be.Jacqueline Rose Behringer from Wilmington, N.C., had personal memories and asked questions:Personally, my ancestry and heritage has always been a prominent factor in my life. In fact, one of my clearest memories from when I was younger revolves around my dad, gifting my brother and I a golden coin with our family name engraved on it, from a factory in Germany that our cousins own. With the coin, he also gifted us stories and information about our family, and origins. My mom chimed in as well — speaking of how her side of the family was Slovakian, and Irish. My mother is very, VERY into our ancestry. In fact, she’s one of the people who pays for memberships on those genealogy websites, like mentioned in the article. Her and my grandmother have always been curious about it, spending hours researching it together at the computer or over the phone. (My grandmother even paid to have official DNA testing done.) I believe that my mom’s interest about it has rubbed off on me a bit as well, as ever since I was younger, I’d proudly share and brag about my heritage. Though, I do sometimes see an author with the same last name as me, or another classmate, or even a friend — and I can’t help but wonder if somehow, we’re distant relatives. Of course, I doubt that they’d be anything like fourth cousins (like sampled in the article), but, curiosity still gets the better of me, and I can’t help but research it or ask about it, many times.Ryan French from Wilmington, N.C., interviewed grandparents:Just the other night I was talking to my grandparents about their ancestors and they told me that even they don’t know everyone in their family tree. They followed up with, “well we’ll know in 2-3 weeks,” so I guess I won’t have to wait long to see everyone who’s related to me from my dad’s side. That’s besides the point, ancestry has always been cool to me but I’ve never been invested in it and I probably won’t be until my grandparents get the results back. Marrying relatives, maybe because it’s almost extinct today but wouldn’t you think it would be weird to marry even a fourth cousin? In my mind it is but back then it was natural as stated in the article. The closer you are to home the more likely you are to marry a cousin. I’m glad that 1875 happened and people came to the conclusion that this is weird. If they didn’t then it’s very possible my mom and dad would be related, gross. All and all, I am very glad that people got some sense knocked into them and stopped marrying relatives.Beatriz Navas from Broward County, Fla., suddenly is inspired to learn more:You reach to feel the crippled, geriatric book high up in your home’s forgotten shelf. You grasp the solid and slide it carefully between surrounding notebooks and books. After long awaited seconds, you achieve to get the solid out of its own home, as you begin to feel the weigh of it. Observing the book, it does not seem out of place with the other books, it just looks more crippled; signaling its higher age. Yearning to get to know what’s inside, you place your hands at both extremes of the book and separate them slowly, bringing the cover of the book with you. The first page, you recognize, has something typed down, kind of erased so you are unable to understand what its saying. Your sight goes down at the only readable words in the first page. You automatically realize the letters form a known word in your mind, so known you recite them everyday. It is a common name, followed by your last name! You wonder if the writer of this book is part of your family. You yearn to know more about your ancestry, your ancestor’s ancestry; who you are, why you are here and not there. You have never done DNA testing, you wished you had, but money is an issue that is directed to needs. Suddenly though, this feels a need. You recognize a long awaited question: why am I here, not there, why am I here? Unanswered questions keep being unanswered, your history unknown._________In response to our Student Opinion question “Who Do You Think Has Been ‘Overlooked’ by History?,” students told us about the forgotten women they looked up to.Sydney Johnson from Wilmington, N.C., was fascinated by the feminist poet and revolutionary Qiu Jin:Qiu Jin interested me most from the list of obituaries. Everything about her screams unusual for her time. As it said in the list, she had a passion for wine, swords, and bomb making. She is everything a writer would want a feminist character to be. The contrast between her love of bombs, and her beautiful poetry is intriguing and fascinating. What especially grabbed my attention was her ethnicity, Chinese. The stereotype of a Chinese woman is submissive, and to the patriarchy she is just a woman who is meant to be at home, not grabbing everything life has to offer. Her work in liberating Chinese woman from societal constraints shouldn’t be forgotten.Although it is disappointing, I wasn’t surprised that she and many others weren’t given obituaries until now. The work she did for woman is wonderful, but it can be easily overlooked. I think that the criteria for determining who deserves an obituary should be simple. People who have left the world a better place than when they came should be the ones who are given the honor.Katie from Pennsylvania has been personally influenced by the NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson:One person who has inspired me to continue to pursue mathematics and science is Katherine Johnson. She was one of the many human computer at NASA in the 50’s. She helped calculate the trajectory for Alan Shepard. Among this amazing accomplishment she was one of three black students to integrate into West Virginia’s graduate schools. She is an amazing woman and her and her other human computer have finally gotten the appreciation they deserve. The movie Hidden Figures tells the story of Katherine. She is still alive today at 99. She has truly been overlooked by history and textbooks.Katharine from Rhode Island was shocked by how many prominent women had been overlooked by the media:It’s so surprising to me that even something so universal and commonplace as an obituary can be affected by inequality. I think the most shocking omission was Sylvia Plath. Plath, who wrote numerous influential poems and The Bell Jar, is a very well known twentieth century figure, therefore it seems inevitable that she would receive one. This is especially true when even minuscule contributions, like naming the Slinky earned recognition in the Times. Though I knew who Plath was, along with Bronte and Lacks, I really had not heard of any of the other women before. For someone who prides herself on being knowledgeable of gender, this really speaks of how we recognize women in society. I hope that in the future, obituaries in the Times more universally acknowledge those who affected the world in a positive manner. I think the Overlooked project is a step in the right direction.And Cheyenne Newkirk from Wilmington, N.C., remained hopeful for all the women who would be recognized in the future:These women all struggled for equality, went through hardships, and were never recognized at all. I was even disappointed in myself that I only knew about half of the women.I think that this is a good step in the right direction. I just wish it hadn’t taken so long. All these women have been dead for years, and maybe, just maybe if they had been recognized sooner more people would know of their contributions and struggles. I also hate (and yes I know hate is a strong word) that this had to be purposely done. If we lived in a fair and equal society this article would not have existed, women would just automatically be given the same respect as men. It would be routine not an afterthought. Praise should not be given out to those who simply acknowledge women. I think moments like these shouldn’t happen because of a new “trend” but every day.I hope that someday a kid opens the NYT and finds a headline that says “the greatest contributions of women from the last 100 years.” I hope they read it, and learn something about the awesome women who lived. I hope they aren’t surprised there is an article dedicated to women. I hope that hundreds of other articles like this exist. I hope that it’s a normal occurrence, not something that’s forced._________Students drew on their background knowledge and personal experience to analyze the Picture Prompt “Ship.”John Burgee from Wilmington, N.C., interpreted it this way:This photo can definitely represent a multitude of things that take place in today’s world, most of it being very negative and centered around technology. The massive ship in the background of the picture appears to be unharmed and moving peacefully across the water. Although, on the phone being held up, the ship is sinking and there is lots of text shown below it. I believe this is trying to show us that the news stretches and embellishes stories a lot, and that most of the population blindly follows them. Also that we enjoy hearing about negative occurrences in the news rather than positive ones. Most stories on something good happening don’t exist, which is what I think this article is trying to portray and is the main reason why we receive and listen to all of these awful and negative stories in the news.McKenzie Ingram from Wilmington, N.C., thought it represented the spread of misinformation:In this image I see a picture portraying the growing issue of false information in today’s society. A good word to describe this picture is “clickbait”. “Clickbait” is when an image is distorted or dramatized in order to entice people into clicking on it. Clickbait is a huge issue in the social media world these days, people will come up with crazy titles or images to put on their videos and or pictures in order to earn “views” or “likes”, but usually 99% of the time, those images and titles are false. This leads to many people being misinformed about a certain situation or thing, which is obviously never a good thing. When people are misinformed it can lead to unnecessary situations and problems that can harm not only the person who is misinformed but others around them.When Mr. McKinney said, “my experience is that once this stuff gets going, people just pass these stories on without even necessarily stopping to read them,” it really made my concern grow. I’m deeply concerned with the fact that lies can be spread that easily. False information and fake stories are a very dangerous thing that can spiral into a harmful situation such as falsely accusing someone, hurting someone’s reputation or even ruining relationships.I think that before anyone spreads anything that they read online, they should always fact check. We need to start being more careful on social media when we read stories or view images because it’s very likely that these things could be false.Josh H. from Philadelphia saw a message about our technology addiction:Information we get from the digital realm - Facebook, cable news, etc. - leads us to believe our world is falling apart at the seams. If we put down the phone and analyze our surroundings with our own eyes, we’ll see that everything is business as usual for the most part. I feel there is a strong thread of truth to that message, though maybe the ship should be drawn slightly listing to starboard.Angela from Rhode Island made a connection to social media:This image seems to be portraying the common theme of how social media tends to change the original story or truth. It represents how nowadays, the truth always seems to be shifted somehow which results in many different points of views and stories. This image seems to also represent the negative connotation regarding technology. The photo of the ship on the phone in comparison to the ship, in reality, seems heated and in a bad situation, just like how social media often is now. It shows how exaggerated things seem to be when in reality they’re not.Kaplan Aktas from North Carolina related it to history:Ah, this reminds me of a British propaganda poster in WW2 stating the following, “Loose Lips Sink Ships”. Misinformation as been a problem since the dawn of communication between humans.As kids, a fun game we are taught in kindergarten is telephone. Telephone is a simple game where a statement is whispered into the ear of the first person and they must relay it to the end without mistakes. If the statement is different by the time it gets to the end, someone altered the statement. This small children’s game is an extremely accurate representation of media in this day and age.Winston Churchill once said that a lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get his pants up. A good example in recent news is the Florida shooting. All these different news outlets had different interpretations of the event and sometimes you just don’t know what to trust, what you heard or what you saw on the news. Then the next day, people will start debating on what THEY heard, and will try to justify it even though it may be different from what the person they are in debate with heard. This can harm social interactions and can influence things for the worst in today’s society of believing everything we see whether it be in the news, on the internet, or from others we trust._________Two students wrote the beginnings of stories for the Picture Prompt “Peek.”Grace from Chicago used descriptive details to begin this drama:It was all about the precision of where I placed each of my fingers. How I used my hands to block the box-like build that my light shaded glasses had possessed. When I would take breaths, so that I would not be tempted to let out the faint hint of a giggle because I knew if I did not take care with these steps to be the perfect player at hid and go seek, I would have not only lost out on a quiet night but, a much less stress-filled one.I was asked by Mrs. Smith, the mother of a two year old son and a five year old daughter, who lived all the way at the end of the driveway, located exactly 0.75 of a mile away from my house, that could meet the standards of a royal family, to watch the younger child. The older, being treated to a night at the ballet. It was not my first time watching another living organism, my aunt’s cat is the only available experience to add to my potential growing list.I was to leave my house at 5:15 on Saturday night, to be there at promptly 5:19, the time that would be most logical to come at, the Smith’s idea, not mine. I was to come through the front door, take off my shoes directly a few feet from the house mat outside of the door, so no dirt would be tracked in on the freshly installed white, porcelain linoleum.As I proceeded to walk through the door, I saw it, the future to the most downcasted night of my entire career in the over watching of pre-educated, elite children. I should have known from the first word ever spoken to me.Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts wrote from the second-person perspective to draw readers in:She doesn’t want to look. She never does. Each time it happens, each time he says what he says, she feels every atom in her body recoil. Trust me, she tells you, I don’t want to look.But something inside of me, she says, does. I do want to look. Because maybe the outcome will be different. You are supposed to give people the benefit of the doubt, right? She looks at you for affirmation, as if this isn’t something she’s supposed to say. You nod. You’re supposed to, yes, you say, But sometimes that sort of thing has a limit.Every time I look, she continues, nothing changes. It’s the same. He says the same thing, and does the same actions, and I’m not even sure why I cover my eyes if it’s the words that really get to me, shouldn’t I be covering my ears?Maybe, you say, clearing your throat just so, Maybe it’s because you don’t want to see him saying those things. Perhaps it’s easier to pretend that he’s not the one saying them.Maybe, she says.Advertisement