AdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Irene Morgenshtern and Raymond Wai Lin met in April 2015 at Public School 230 as part of a bimonthly volunteer project run by New York Cares, which included teaching third graders how to prepare and cook six-course lunches in their school cafeterias.“I thought he was very kind and easy going,” Ms. Morgenshtern said. “He was also incredibly patient with the children.”Mr. Lin was equally impressed. “She seemed very carefree and kind when working with the kids, and she always had such a great sense of humor,” he said. “There was definitely some chemistry there.”Both were seeing other people at the time, so they had little choice but to remain friends. Seven months later, they left a cooking session together and began discussing family, friends and plans for Thanksgiving during a ride on the G train, where Ms. Morgenshtern was heading home to the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn and Mr. Lin to Greenpoint.“I definitely wanted to get to know her better on a personal level,” Mr. Lin said. He was attempting to do just that when the train doors opened at her Bergen Street stop, and Ms. Morgenshtern got off.“I’ll just ask her next time,” Mr. Lin remembered thinking.The following month, Mr. Lin returned to the session only to learn that Ms. Morgenshtern was not there. “I didn’t know what happened to her, and the only person who had her contact information was our volunteer project organizer, and all of that was kept private,” Mr. Lin said. “Being a single man in New York, I was used to the ups and downs of dating, and I thought it was a lost opportunity.”In April 2016, Ms. Morgenshtern finally resurfaced at the cooking class. Since five long months had passed, Mr. Lin felt it best to keep the heat out of the kitchen. “I didn’t say anything to her about missing her or about how I was feeling,” he said.The following month, she invited him, along with other friends, to a bar in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to watch the Kentucky Derby. (By now, they were both unattached.) “I remember thinking, ‘Uh-oh, am I getting friend-zoned?’” Mr. Lin recalled. “So I politely declined and suggested one-on-one drinks instead in the coming week.”Read moreKrista Elise Zegura and Adam Sowlati were married April 21 in Tucson. The Rev. David Benedict Hedges, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at St. Michael and All Angels Episcopal Church.The bride, 29, and the groom, 30, met at Stanford University, from which they graduated.The bride is the associate director of the National Program at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. She received a master’s degree in law and diplomacy from Tufts University.She is the daughter of Elizabeth Chesney Zegura and Stephen L. Zegura of Tucson. The bride’s father is professor emeritus of anthropology at the University of Arizona. Her mother is associate professor emeriti of French and Italian, also at the University of Arizona.The groom is a litigation associate at the New York law firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. He received a law degree cum laude from Harvard.He is the son of Malila Sowlati Gallardo and Sasan Sowlati of Los Angeles. The groom’s mother is a quality control auditor at Centene, a health insurance company in Los Angeles. His father owns Omni Auto Trade, a car dealership, also in Los Angeles.Stefanie Jill Cohen and Jonathan Ian Wasserman were married April 21 at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in New York. Rabbi Marc Gellman officiated.Mrs. Wasserman, 31, is a licensed clinical social worker in New York for Mount Sinai Beth Israel Hospital. She graduated from the University of Rhode Island and received a master’s degree in social work from New York University.She is a daughter of Sandra L. Cohen and Jeffrey D. Cohen of Dix Hills, N.Y. The bride’s father is a senior vice president of the Tiffen Company, a manufacturer of imaging equipment in Hauppauge, N.Y. Her mother is the founder and chief executive of Premiere Living Products, a company in New York that creates baskets, hampers and other storage products.Mr. Wasserman, also 31, is a sportswriter for Bleacher Report in New York. He graduated from Syracuse and received a master’s degree in journalism from Hofstra.He is the son of Ellen F. Wasserman and David L. Wasserman of New York. The groom’s mother is retired as a senior vice president of MSW-ARS Research, a marketing research firm in Lake Success, N.Y. His father is retired as the chief executive of Zurich Alternative Asset Management in New York. He is now the chairman of the Art Therapy Project, a nonprofit organization that provides creative art therapy to trauma survivors in New York.The couple first met as 11-year-olds growing up in Dix Hills, but lost touch after high school. They reconnected after college through mutual friends.Sisi Monica Chen and James Kauper Coonan were married April 21 at the Piedmont Garden Tent, an events space in Atlanta. Dr. Steven Jewell, a Universal Life minister, officiated.The bride and groom each received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.Ms. Chen, 30, is an account director focusing on partnerships at AppNexus, an advertising technology company in New York. She graduated cum laude from Princeton.She is a daughter of Daoling Bi and Guantao Chen of Atlanta. The bride’s father is a Regents’ Professor and the chairman of the mathematics and statistics department at Georgia State University. Her mother is a statistician at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.Mr. Coonan, also 30, is a finance associate at Prudential Financial, a life insurance and retirement company in Newark. He graduated with distinction from Stanford.He is the son of Deborah Kauper Coonan and James R. Coonan of Portland, Ore. The groom’s mother is a treasurer of the Riverdale School Foundation, a nonprofit organization in Portland that supports district schools. His father retired as the executive director of the Regional Accelerator and Innovation Network in Portland, a nonprofit group that supports entrepreneurs in the Willamette Valley. He is on the board of the Oregon Growth Board, a nonprofit group in Portland, which invests in venture funds for the state.The couple met in New York in December 2012 when they sat next to each other at an event hosted by a mutual friend. They began dating a month later, and during their first year together decided to apply to Penn’s M.B.A. program.Dr. Hannah Glenn Rosenblum and Dr. Kevin Neill O’Laughlin were married April 21 at the New Haven Lawn Club. Rev. Dr. Benjamin R. Doolittle, ordained by the Reformed Church in America, led a ceremony that included Jewish traditions and an Irish blessing.The couple met when they were partners in anatomy class during their first year of medical school at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, from which they both graduated.Dr. Rosenblum, 30, is a physician in her third year of residency in internal medicine/pediatrics at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She graduated from Vassar. She will serve as a chief resident for the Yale primary care/medicine-pediatrics program in 2019.She is the daughter of Jane Rosenblum and Richard K. Rosenblum of Tenafly, N.J. Her father is a partner in Gardner Weiss & Rosenblum, a law firm in Manhattan.Dr. O’Laughlin, 40, is a physician in his third year of residency in the primary care/internal medicine program at Yale-New Haven Hospital. In June, he will serve as global health chief resident at Yale, splitting six months at Yale-New Haven Hospital and six months at Makerere University Hospital in Kampala, Uganda. He graduated from California Polytechnic State University.He is a son of Margaret Kilkenny and the late Patrick O’Laughlin of Los Gatos, Calif. His mother retired as an academic counselor in the Santa Clara Unified Schools District Adult Education Program in Santa Clara, Calif. His father was a partner in Ezgar & O’Laughlin, a law firm in San Jose, Calif., and a former mayor of Los Gatos.Johannah Kathleen Chase and Tim Allen Coates were married April 21 at Deity, an events space in Brooklyn. The Rev. Nick Coates, a brother of the groom who was ordained by the United Church of Canada, officiated.The bride, who is 36 and works in Manhattan, is a program officer for the Walton Family Foundation, a philanthropic organization begun by the Walmart founders Sam and Helen Walton. The foundation, based in Arkansas, invests in the education of children, kindergarten through 12th grade, and works to protect rivers and oceans and the communities they support. She graduated from Cornell and received a master’s degree in teaching secondary mathematics from Pace University.She is a daughter of Tamara S. Hill of Dixon, Ill., and John W. Chase of Mount Morris, Ill. The bride’s mother is an English teacher at Reagan Middle School in Dixon. Her father, who worked in Rockford, Ill., retired as associate deputy of foster care and agency licensing for the Department of Children and Family Services of Illinois. The bride is a stepdaughter of Beth Nelson Chase. Her stepmother is the vice president of Bright Stars of Bethlehem, a nonprofit Christian organization.The groom, who is 38 and also works in Manhattan, is a product marketing leader for government, which is a part of IBM’s public sector business. He graduated from St. Thomas University in Fredericton, New Brunswick, and received a master of public policy degree from Harvard.He is a son of Judy R. Coates and John F. Coates of Fredericton. The groom’s mother, who is retired, was the founding board chair of the Fredericton chapter of Children’s International Summer Villages, a Cincinnati-based nonprofit organization that promotes peace education. His father, who is also retired, was a professor of social work in Fredericton for St. Thomas University.The groom’s first marriage ended in divorce.The couple met in October 2015 through a mutual friend in Brooklyn.Dr. Elizabeth Wolf MacLean and Nicholas Buell Anderson were married April 21 at Rock Quarry Farm, an events space in Chapel Hill, N.C. The Rev. John Oliver, a Baptist minister, officiated.The bride, 32, is a pediatrician at the Los Alamos Children’s Clinic in Los Alamos, N.M. She graduated from Stanford and received a medical degree from the University of North Carolina.She is a daughter of Susan R. Wolf and Douglas E. MacLean of Chapel Hill. The bride’s parents are both professors of philosophy at the University of North Carolina.The groom, 30, is an equity research analyst at Thornburg Investment Management in Santa Fe, N.M. He graduated from the University of North Carolina and received an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.He is a son of Coleen O’Shea and David B. Anderson of Weston, Conn. The groom’s mother is a founding partner of Allen O’Shea Literary Agency in Weston. His father is the owner of New England Wetland Plants, a conservation nursery, in Amherst, Mass.The couple met in 2015 in Chicago through the dating app Coffee Meets Bagel while the bride was in residency at Lurie Children’s Hospital and the groom was completing business school. But it wasn’t until the third date when they discovered that the bride’s father was the groom’s philosophy professor in college. Mr. Anderson was in her father’s environmental ethics class. “He got an A in the class,” she said.Megan Elizabeth Ballard and James Henry Hamett Mitchell were married April 21 at the First Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, N.C. The Rev. Dr. Daniel F. Lewis, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Mitchell, 29, is a lawyer for the Department of Education in the Office for Civil Rights in Washington. She graduated from the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill and received a law degree from Emory University.She is the daughter of Carol Kester Ballard and John M. Ballard of Wilmington. The bride’s father is a pilot, based in Charlotte, N.C., for American Airlines. Her mother retired as a school psychologist from the New Hanover County Public Schools in Wilmington.Mr. Mitchell, 26, is a systems engineer at Delta Resources, a defense department contractor in Washington. He graduated from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va., with degrees in chemical engineering and chemistry.He is a son of Jane Brewer Mitchell and Dr. William R. Mitchell of Charlotte. His mother is an administrator at Merit Properties, a commercial real estate company there. His father is an oncologist and the owner of Southern Oncology Specialists, a group practice with three locations in the Charlotte area.The couple met in July 2016 while sitting next to each other on an American Airlines flight and spoke nonstop from Washington to Charlotte. She got the last seat on standby, and although he would have preferred driving, his mother had booked him a ticket.Alexa Kaeten Mehraban and Daniel Peter Matthews were married April 21 at the Metropolitan Club in New York. Rabbi Jay Rosenbaum officiated.The couple graduated from Trinity College, she cum laude.Mrs. Matthews, 26, is a restaurant consultant and the founder of @EatingNYC, a New York-based food and lifestyle brand.She is the daughter of Vivian Anavian of New York. The bride’s mother is an antiques dealer and interior decorator in New York.Mr. Matthews, 27, is the founder and chief executive of Postcard, a mobile software service allowing users to place food orders at restaurants of their choosing.He is the son of Rita Matthews and Robert S. Matthews of New York. The groom’s father is the founding partner of Matthews & Company, a tax consultancy with offices in New York, Westchester and Florida.The couple first met through mutual friends while growing up in New York.Jordyn Nicole Shaffer, a daughter of Sheri Dana Goodman of Philadelphia and Hal J. Shaffer of Boca Raton, Fla., was married April 21 to Jesse Todd Amoroso, the son of Nancy Amoroso and Leonard Amoroso Jr. of Wynnewood, Pa. Jay Roseman, an uncle of the bride, received permission from the Santa Barbara County Clerk’s Office to officiate at Belmond El Encanto, a hotel in Santa Barbara, Calif.Mrs. Amoroso, 28, is a social media manager at the fashion brand Anthropologie in Philadelphia. She graduated cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.The bride’s father is a former lawyer in Philadelphia.Mr. Amoroso, 31, is the vice president of the Amoroso’s Baking Company, a Philadelphia-based producer and distributor of bread and rolls of which his father is the president and chief executive. The groom graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.The groom’s mother is the stylist and image consultant for KYW-TV, a CBS affiliate in Philadelphia.The couple first met through mutual friends in September 2013 in Margate, N.J.Dr. Kathleen Marie Fenn and Joseph John Scala were married April 21 at St. Thomas More, the Roman Catholic chapel at Yale University in New Haven. The Rev. Karl Davis, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 30, is a first-year fellow in hematology and oncology at Columbia University Medical Center in New York. She graduated from Yale, from which she also received a medical degree.She is the daughter of Carol A. Fenn of Oxford, Conn., and the late Robert J. Fenn. The bride’s mother is associate professor and chair of the department of chemistry at Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Conn. Her father retired as a research chemist for Arch Chemicals in Cheshire, Conn.The groom, 31, is a vice president of the Garrison Investment Group in New York. He graduated from Amherst College.He is the son of Carol K. Scala and Joseph C. Scala of Pequannock, N.J. The groom’s mother is a certified public accountant at the Professional Economic Growth Group, a financial services firm in Edison, N.J. His father is a software engineer for Crestron Electronics, a technology company in Rockleigh, N.J.The couple met in San Francisco in 2011 while both were visiting friends from college who happened to be dating each other.Amanda Leigh Zeiger and Jesse Michael Reich were married April 21 at the Pierre hotel in New York. Rabbi Michael A. White officiated.The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they each graduated magna cum laude.Mrs. Reich, 28, is a fourth-year medical student at Drexel University College of Medicine in Philadelphia. In June she is to begin a pediatric residency at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.She is the daughter of Helene I. Zeiger and Alan L. Zeiger of Villanova, Pa. The bride’s father is a senior partner in the mergers and acquisitions practice in the Philadelphia office of the law firm Blank Rome. He is a chairman of Greater Philadelphia Film Office, a nonprofit commission committed to the growth of the film and video production industry in the area. He is a founder and trustee of the IES Brain Research Foundation in Sparta Township, N.J., which provides grants and funds to students for summer fellowships in the field of brain research. Her mother, who is retired, worked in the Philadelphia area as a medical diagnostics sales representative for the Cytyc Corporation, a women’s health care company.Mr. Reich, 27, is the chief of staff to the chief executive of Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive search, assessment and leadership consulting firm in New York. He is on the young professionals board of Youth Inc., a philanthropic organization that partners with nonprofit youth groups in New York.He is a son of Jamie Reich Freedman of Port Washington, N.Y., and Daniel S. Reich of Old Westbury, N.Y. The groom’s mother works as an independent college adviser in the New York metropolitan area. His father is the chief executive of Raytex Industries, a textiles company in Woodbury, N.Y. He is on the board, and a past president, of Temple Sinai of Roslyn, N.Y., and on the board of Maccabi USA, a nonprofit organization in Philadelphia that offers sports programs to Jewish youth and sponsors the United States team in the Maccabiah Games in Israel.Jessica Laine Morris and Graham Pere Garlinghouse are to be married April 22 at Forsyth Park in Savannah, Ga. Brandon Kaufman, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, is to officiate.The bride, who is 32 and will be taking her husband’s name, is a third-grade teacher and department chair at Georgetown Day School in Washington. She graduated from Kansas State University and received a master’s degree in elementary education from the University of Southern California. She also holds a certificate in advanced education leadership from Harvard.She is a daughter of Beverly Raser Morris and Michael A. Morris of Topeka, Kan. The bride’s parents both work in Topeka. Her father is an independent financial consultant, and her mother manages the laboratory at Stormont Vail Hospital.The groom, 31, is a supply chain manager at Ernst & Young in Washington. He graduated from George Washington University and received a master’s degree in political science from Kansas State. He also received an M.B.A. from the University of Maryland.He is the son of Webb Garlinghouse and Julie Garlinghouse, also of Topeka. The groom’s mother, a retired nurse, now owns and operates Executive Residences, a company in Topeka that provided short-term leasing for home renters. His father, who is retired, was the owner of National Electronic Type, a typesetting company, also in Topeka.The couple met at Topeka High School. The bride, who was captain of the cheerleading team, boldly invited the groom, who was an underclassman and debate club president, to the junior prom.Maritza Carol Ebling and Matthew William Hillard were married April 21 at the Old South Church in Boston. The Rev. Jay Weldon, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony, with the Rev. Mike Bertram, a Roman Catholic priest, taking part.The bride, 28, is a field engineer at Indico, a company in Boston that provides technology for businesses to build analytics systems to improve products, predict future sales and access new markets. She graduated from Wesleyan University.She is the daughter of Gayané Zartarian Ebling and Thomas D. Ebling of Boston. The bride’s father, who is retired, was a chief executive of Demandware, a company in Burlington, Mass., that provides software services that enable other companies to design, implement and manage their own e-commerce sites, including websites and mobile applications.The groom, also 28, graduated from Bowdoin College and, in December, received a master’s degree in public policy from the University of Michigan.He is a son of Cecilia J. Hillard and Douglas H. Hillard, both of Milwaukee. The groom’s mother is a faculty member and researcher at the Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. His father is a contractor for the Kal Group, a construction firm, also in Milwaukee.The couple met on a blind date in Boston in April 2015.Eleanor Joan Geise and Benjamin David Wasserman were married April 21 at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington. Rabbi Annie Bornstein officiated.The couple met in 2011 at the University of Pennsylvania, from which they graduated magna cum laude. They also received law degrees from Duke, he cum laude and she magna cum laude.The bride, 28, is a law clerk for Judge Robin L. Rosenberg of the Southern District of Florida. She also received a master’s degree in adolescent special education from Hunter College.She is the daughter of Elizabeth R. Geise and John V. Geise of Kensington, Md. Her mother is a partner in the Washington office of Schiff Hardin, a Chicago law firm. Her father retired as the chief of the professional misconduct review unit at the office of the deputy attorney general in Washington.The groom, 27, is a law clerk for Judge Donald M. Middlebrooks, also of the Southern District of Florida. He is a son of Amy F. Wasserman of Manhasset, N.Y., and Jacob B. Wasserman of Queens, N.Y. His mother is a special-education teacher at Lakeville Elementary School in Great Neck, N.Y. His father is a licensed tour guide at Hornblower Cruises and Events in New York City.Advertisement