AdvertisementSupported byBy Roberta Smith, Martha Schwendener and Will HeinrichThrough April 21. Casey Kaplan, 121 West 27th Street, Manhattan; 212-645-7335, caseykaplangallery.com.Painters often find their styles by setting narrow limits on their work. But things usually get really interesting when they start working against their own rules. Sarah Crowner, known over the last decade for stitching together cutout shapes of plain or painted canvas to form rectilinear abstract paintings, is sticking to first principles. Yet she’s messing with them so vigorously that “Weeds,” her fifth solo gallery show in New York, has the feeling of a breakthrough.Ms. Crowner has complicated her compositions, strewing them with tipsy curves, ellipses and parts of circles suggestive of orange sections. Her arrangements borrow from the history of abstraction without accruing too great a debt. Matisse’s cutouts and Ellsworth Kelly’s signature curves, which were often kissing, or stacked like those in the letter B, are repeatedly folded into the flux.Color is no longer necessarily solid and flat. Some shapes are brushy; others fade a bit, as if catching light from somewhere. There are even tiny glimpses of white canvas, like the bit of possible moon glow in “Opening Blues.” Elsewhere, variations of a single solid color are juxtaposed: close but different tones of, say, yellow (“Sliced Bouquet”) or pink (“Rotated Pink,” whose other main color is a dark green that slides toward textured chartreuse). The unruly blacks and grays of “Folded Greens” result from a combination of visible brushwork, uneven staining and shifts in tone. And throughout, what appear to be shades of black turn out to be the darkest blues.Ms. Crowner’s sewn-canvas technique continues to give her colors a satisfying separateness. But now she is increasing contrasts and pushing toward a greater, also satisfying sense of difference and interaction. The works’ new subtle busyness becomes them. Once again, she has also altered the gallery’s floor with a series of six-and-a-half-inch-high platforms, both small and large, in plywood with a pine veneer. They bring the paintings’ curves into real space. Neither your feet nor your eyes can take anything for granted.ROBERTA SMITHThrough March 25. Whitney Museum of American Art, 99 Gansevoort Street, Manhattan; 212-570-3600, whitney.org.The photocopier never gained traction as a popular artistic tool (with the exception of after-hours body-copying antics, particularly of the intoxicated-office-party variety). As you can see in “Experiments in Electrostatics: Photocopy Art From the Whitney’s Collection, 1966–1986,” the results are simply not as epic or generative as, for instance, those of Picasso and Braque when they were discovering collage. Nevertheless, this exhibition is an intriguing curiosity, showcasing the work of three artists and a collective who have worked seriously with photocopy machines.Edward Meneeley, a photographer, embraced the photocopier in the 1960s after seeing one in a friend’s office. For his “IBM Drawings” (1966), Mr. Meneeley photocopied typewriter ribbons, adhesive tape and punch cards onto colorful paper, resulting in small, wallpaper-like abstractions. Lesley Schiff, originally a painter, has made deadpan images of everyday objects like a radio or a clock, as well as moody still lifes with fruit and plants. Barbara T. Smith, a pioneering body artist and performance artist, made hazy abstractions titled “God’s Breath” (1966) by scraping flour across the flat top of a copier. Her use of this material is a critique of the male-dominated world of abstract art and the view of the kitchen as a woman’s primary workplace.The International Society of Copier Artists, which was started in 1982 by the artist Louise Neaderland and is now defunct, had 500 members at one point. Examples of their work here range from still lifes to graphic montages reminiscent of contemporaneous punk rock album covers and zines. The part of the exhibition devoted to this organization hints at the real popularity of electrostatic technology: “Fine” art might not have embraced the photocopier, but, particularly before the internet, it was wildly popular among artists from the East Village to Eastern Europe, as well as among activists, students and subversive office workers. A larger exhibition might include their work as well.MARTHA SCHWENDENERThrough April 7. David Zwirner, 533 West 19th Street, Manhattan; 212-727-2070, davidzwirner.com.The beguiling sense of freedom in Isa Genzken’s aptly named “Sky Energy,” a show of new additions to several of this German sculptor’s best-known and longstanding series, starts with its installation. In a large single room of David Zwirner’s 19th street gallery, she’s arranged nine concrete sculptures; two discrete groups of mannequins, one arranged around a living room set; a 10-foot tower of MDF (medium-density fiberboard) boxes and paint drips; and two more towers covered in mirror foil, like disco retreads of the old World Trade Center. Hanging on the walls are brash collages, heavy on colored adhesive tape, as well as an X-ray of the artist’s skull.But the gallery doesn’t feel crowded, because this maximalism is executed with such a light touch that it feels like a kind of minimalism. Two mannequins, thrown on top of each other on a beat-up leather sofa, might be having sex, but they also might be garbage, and the same goes for those wearing avant-couture plastic-bag ponchos.For me, though, Ms. Genzken’s effortless fusion of opposites is most exciting in her “loudspeakers,” narrow monoliths perforated with off-center holes, and her “screens,” double door-frame shapes connected with metal hinges — because, in them, she makes concrete look like Styrofoam that looks like concrete.WILL HEINRICHAdvertisement