AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Alexandra S. LevineUpdated, 2:10 p.m.Good morning on this snow-blown Thursday.A winter storm warning remains in effect until 1 a.m. on Friday. Expect six to ten inches of snow, strong winds and temperatures below freezing.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo declared a state of emergency for the southern part of the state, including New York City, Westchester County and Long Island, and Gov. Chris Christie declared a state of emergency in several New Jersey counties.Schools in New York City are closed, as are many others across the region (see the list here). State offices are closed in New Jersey.Commuters are encouraged to avoid driving and use mass transit when possible. The snow, which caused a tumultuous morning commute, will affect the evening commute as well, so travel safely and leave yourself extra time.You can check for service changes and delays before heading out:• The subway: There are service changes on A, C, E, B, D, F, M, N, Q, R, W and L trains.• Metro-North: The Harlem and New Haven lines are running with delays, and there are service changes on the Hudson line.• Long Island Rail Road: The City Terminal Zone, Oyster Bay, Port Jefferson and Ronkonkoma lines are running with delays. Service on the West Hempstead line has been suspended, and there are changes to Babylon and Hempstead service.• New Jersey Transit: Bus, rail and light rail services are running on a normal weekday schedule, but buses to and from the Port Authority Bus Terminal may experience delays. Cross honoring is in effect on buses, private carriers, rail and light rail services. Access Link service is suspended statewide.• Bridges and tunnels: Motorists are encouraged to drive at reduced speeds on bridges and tunnels across the city, so expect a slower-than-usual commute. A speed restriction of 35 m.p.h. is in place on the George Washington Bridge and there are residual delays at the Lincoln Tunnel.• Ferries: All Seastreak and NYC Ferry service is suspended. The Staten Island Ferry is running on a modified schedule.• Newark, La Guardia and Kennedy airports: All flights at La Guardia and Kennedy have been temporarily suspended, and there are extensive delays for arrivals and departures at Newark. Passengers are encouraged to check in with airlines for updates on Friday and weekend flights.• Amtrak: Trains between New York and Boston are running on modified schedules. Acela Express and Northeast Regional carriers will run less frequently, but Keystone Service, Empire Service and Downeaster Service will operate as scheduled.Alternate-side parking is suspended for snow removal today and Friday.The flurries should dwindle by this evening, but it may feel as icy as zero degrees or lower. What might be more concerning, according to Tim Morrin of the National Weather Service, are the days to follow.“After the snow is over, we’re expecting a very frigid period of weather on Friday and Saturday,” Mr. Morrin told us. “Wind chill factors can be even worse than we had during the New Year’s period, so everything’s going to be really frozen in. For citizens who need to be outdoors, it’s really going to be a tough go.”Friday and Saturday are showing highs near 12 and lows around 4, but with the wind chill, it may feel as biting as 20 below zero.Plan accordingly and stay warm (think: hearty dishes like soups and stews, or hot chocolate and cold-weather cocktails).And for those looking to fight the cabin fever, the National Museum of Mathematics, MoMA PS1, Whitney Museum of American Art, American Museum of Natural History, Museum of Modern Art, three locations of the Met, and the 9/11 Memorial Museum are open. As of late Thursday morning, Broadway shows are also planning to go on with their evening performances.(The Neue Galerie, New York Botanical Garden, Queens Museum, Museum of the Moving Image and all New York Public Library locations are closed, as are the Queens and Brooklyn public library systems.)You can read more in our live briefing about how the ‘bomb cyclone’ is affecting New York and other parts of the country.Advertisement