AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Alexandra S. LevineGood morning on this bright Wednesday.Snow last week. 30s and drizzly yesterday. 50s and somewhat cloudy today. 70s and splendid by week’s end.New York weather can be baffling this time of year, but if you listen to your body, it may be able to tell you what’s in store.“Your body can, in some ways, predict an upcoming change in the weather because of barometric pressure,” or the weight of the atmosphere, said Dr. Jaspal Singh, co-director of the Weill Cornell Medicine Center for Comprehensive Spine Care on the Upper East Side.The knowledge is in your joints.Meteorologists look at changes in atmospheric pressure to forecast weather patterns. Our joints, Dr. Singh explained, respond to those changes, too.At normal or higher pressure, when the atmosphere is heavier, it pushes against us from the outside, preventing our body tissue from expanding.But as atmospheric pressure drops — as it does ahead of damp, rainy or snowy weather — body tissue has more space to expand. When it does, it can push against our joints, causing some people, especially those with injuries or arthritis, to feel aches and pains.Our bodies have a harder time sensing when a brilliant day is coming. On days when the pressure is average, your joints likely wouldn’t hurt, so if the pressure were to rise, there would be no change for the body to feel, Dr. Singh said.But the sun is here to stay through Saturday.The weatherman says so.Here’s what else is happening:• There was a list of troubles and scrutiny that only seemed to accelerate in the final months of the New York City Housing Authority chairwoman. [New York Times]• The police department released the first video footage of officers shooting a mentally ill man in Brooklyn last week. [New York Times]• Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg urged new citizens to make America better, presiding over a naturalization ceremony at the New-York Historical Society. [New York Times]• The mayor has announced Stanley Brezenoff, the 80-year-old veteran’s veteran of government service, as the interim chairman of the New York City Housing Authority. [New York Times]• Supporters of a Brooklyn-Queens streetcar are calling on the mayor to take steps to move forward with the project. The mayor described the project as “a big complicated endeavor.” [New York Times]• The city’s new schools chancellor has taken his first controversial position, opposing the “opt-out” movement on state testing. [New York Times]• Want a glimpse into the evidence against El Chapo? It includes murders, gunfights, torture and cocaine smuggled in cans of jalapeños. [New York Times]• A troubled man has been found guilty of stabbing two children, killing one, in a Brooklyn elevator four years ago. [New York Times]• If you’re considering taking the Amtrak train to Chicago this summer, you may have to redraw those travel plans. [New York Times]• For the first time in 60 years, the Metropolitan Museum of Art reached past its own doors to pull in a new leader. [New York Times]• Many lawyers disagree with the presence of immigration agents in New York City courts, so they are beginning to demonstrate against them. [WNYC]• He went from developing skateboards to starting one of Brooklyn’s biggest real-estate firms. Who is he? [The Bridge]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Salt and Pepper”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• Havana Film Festival New York, celebrating Latin American cinema, continues at various locations around Manhattan through April 17. Schedule here. [Ticket prices vary]• The Public Theater Mobile Unit performs Shakespeare’s “Henry V” at the Brownsville Recreation Center in Brooklyn. 11:30 a.m. [Free, R.S.V.P. encouraged]• Arts Community Dialogues, a networking session for artists and cultural workers, and an open discussion on issues facing the arts community, at Flushing Town Hall in Queens. 7 p.m. [Free]• Sarah Boxer speaks with the author Michael Frank about “The Mighty Franks,” his memoir of growing up in 1970s Hollywood, at the National Arts Club. 8 p.m. [Free]• Looking ahead: On Saturday, TimesTalks hosts a live version of the Corner Office business column with the founder of Chobani, Hamdi Ulukaya, and the column’s writer, David Gelles, in Midtown. [Tickets]• New York City F.C. hosts Real Salt Lake, 7 p.m. (MLS LIVE). Mets at Marlins, 7:10 p.m. (SNY) Yankees at Red Sox, 7:10 p.m. (WPIX) Knicks at Cavaliers, 8 p.m. (MSG). Nets at Celtics, 8 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until May 10.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Civil Rights Act of 1968, considered our last major piece of civil rights legislation.The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been assassinated just one week earlier, and riots were ravaging the country.“PRESIDENT SIGNS CIVIL RIGHTS BILL; PLEADS FOR CALM,” read the front-page headline of The New York Times.The Fair Housing Act, as it was known, pushed for equality by cracking down on housing discrimination, making it illegal to refuse to rent or sell property to anyone on the basis of “race, color, religion, sex, familial status or national origin.” It also prevented federal spending in ways that would further segregation or racial discrimination.“The time is here. Action must be now,” the president said on that day, reminding members of Congress in attendance that two years earlier, Dr. King had been at the White House meeting in which the housing law was first proposed.You can learn more about the civil rights era and Dr. King’s legacy at “Rebel Spirits,” an exhibition on display at the New-York Historical Society until May 20, and at a lecture there on April 23, “The Supreme Court vs. Martin Luther King Jr.”New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Advertisement