Advertisement

Gregg Jones


VIETNAM '67
JAN. 19, 2018
In early 1968, the siege of the remote Marine combat base at Khe Sanh dominated American news coverage of the war in Vietnam. Gen. William Westmoreland, America’s supreme commander in Saigon, billed the North Vietnamese Army’s move against Khe Sanh as “the main event” of a Communist offensive.News accounts ominously compared the siege to Dien Bien Phu, the remote French garrison surrounded and forced to surrender to Vietnamese Communist forces in 1954. On Feb. 18, even with the so-called Tet offensive raging across the country, The New York Times called the unfolding showdown at Khe Sanh “the major battle of the Vietnam War.”The drama played out over 77 days, with nerve-jangling highlights on nightly news broadcasts. Four weeks into the siege, Americans learned that President Lyndon Johnson and his commanders were contemplating the use of tactical nuclear weapons to save Khe Sanh.The defenders endured artillery barrages, sniper fire, probes and ground assaults. Ultimately, though, Khe Sanh didn’t live up to its early hype of an Alamo-style disaster in the making.AdvertisementOver time, the events that unfolded at Khe Sanh in 1968 were eclipsed by the interpretation of what had occurred. A revisionist historical narrative hardened in the 1980s, and Khe Sanh became a metaphor for General Westmoreland’s mismanagement of the war. More recently, the siege has been written off as a brilliant North Vietnamese ruse that concealed the impending Communist attacks on urban centers — the Tet offensive. This judgment infuses books of contemporary vintage and the recent Ken Burns-Lynn Novick documentary film on Vietnam. In reality, the evidence on North Vietnamese intentions at Khe Sanh is inconclusive, and the case is far from closed.AdvertisementAs 1968 began, the United States and North Vietnam aspired to victory in the year ahead. Khe Sanh figured prominently in the plans of both. The anchor of the American stronghold at Khe Sanh was a Marine combat base perched on a plateau between an old French road, Route 9, and the Rao Quan River, about seven miles east of the border with Laos and 15 miles south of the demilitarized zone dividing North Vietnam from South. A fan-shaped array of outposts, including an American Army Special Forces camp, guarded approaches to the base from the north and west.In January 1968, two North Vietnamese Army divisions — some 20,000 men — converged on Khe Sanh from the west. Another division moved to a position northeast of Khe Sanh.The first phase of the North Vietnamese plan, “General Offensive and General Uprising,” called for Communist troops to provoke a series of interior battles to lure American forces from the populous coast. One of those battles was to occur at Khe Sanh.But the ruling Politburo in Hanoi had split over the next phase. A faction led by the ascendant Le Duan, the general secretary of the Central Committee, called for urban attacks aimed at igniting a popular uprising. In opposition to that risky approach were North Vietnam’s aging revolutionary leader, Ho Chi Minh, and his military chief, Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap, architect of the victory over the French at Dien Bien Phu in 1954. Ultimately, Le Duan outflanked his opponents and the urban offensive was incorporated into the plan. The attacks on southern cities were to unfold as Vietnam celebrated the lunar new year — Tet — in late January 1968.In Saigon, General Westmoreland welcomed the Communist move against Khe Sanh. He laid plans for an unprecedented artillery and air response to cripple his North Vietnamese adversaries in a rare conventional confrontation.The drama at Khe Sanh got underway with a flurry of N.V.A. attacks in the early hours of Sunday, Jan. 21. An enemy ground assault penetrated a Marine outpost on Hill 861 before failing. Communist artillery bombarded Khe Sanh Combat Base, detonating the main ammunition dump. Other North Vietnamese troops attacked the district headquarters compound in nearby Khe Sanh village.This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.Over the next two weeks, the base and its outposts endured daily barrages and sniper fire. At night, N.V.A. soldiers probed Khe Sanh’s defenses.AdvertisementConcerns of a massive ground assault on Khe Sanh increased after the Communist urban attacks began on Jan. 31. The following day, President Johnson’s chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Gen. Earle Wheeler, asked General Westmoreland whether tactical nuclear weapons might be required to save Khe Sanh. Westmoreland hedged his bets. In a worst-case scenario, he said in a secret cable, “I visualize that either tactical nuclear weapons or chemical agents would be active candidates for employment.”On Feb. 5, as fighting continued in Saigon, Hue and other cities, the North Vietnamese attacked a key Khe Sanh outpost on Hill 861 Alpha. Communist forces pierced the Marine perimeter, but the attack was finally broken by a massive artillery barrage aided by electronic sensors and punctuated with a ground counterattack. The following night, the Army Special Forces camp southwest of the base was overrun in a ground assault supported by 11 Russian-made PT-76 light tanks. On Feb. 8, N.V.A. soldiers attacked a small Marine outpost barely a mile southwest of the base.Communist forces set to work encircling the base with trenches and concealed gun positions, imperiling the stronghold’s aerial supply lifeline. In Washington, retired Gen. Maxwell Taylor, a respected World War II veteran and former ambassador to South Vietnam, advised President Johnson to abandon Khe Sanh. Food and water were rationed in the outposts, and wounded men sometimes died awaiting helicopter evacuation flights. The sense of crisis deepened on Feb. 10 when a Marine C-130 transport was hit by enemy fire and forced to crash-land at Khe Sanh, killing eight Americans.That same week, unknown to General Westmoreland and the Marines, Communist commanders shifted a third of their siege force from Khe Sanh to the battle for Hue, 50 miles to the southeast. Years after the war, Westmoreland’s intelligence chief, Lt. Gen. Phillip B. Davidson Jr., remained baffled by the decision. The North Vietnamese “kept too many troops at Khe Sanh just to threaten it, and too few to overrun it.” It is one of many unsolved mysteries that still shroud the battle for Khe Sanh.The siege reached its climax in the last week of February 1968, although this, too, became evident only much later.On Feb. 24, American forces launched Operation Sierra, colloquially known as the Super Gaggle, for the large number of aircraft involved. It involved inundating enemy gun positions around Khe Sanh with tear gas, smoke, high explosives and napalm, allowing big Sea Knight helicopters to swoop in to the hilltop outposts and drop external nets packed with supplies. The resupply crisis eased.The following day, fear of an imminent assault on the base peaked after the decimation of a Marine patrol and discovery of new Communist trenches extending to within a few yards of the southeastern perimeter wire. On the night of Feb. 29, N.V.A. forces undertook three waves of attacks on the eastern perimeter of Khe Sanh Combat Base. The Americans activated an elaborate plan to trap and slaughter Communist forces with coordinated B-52 strikes and other air and artillery missions. A few N.V.A. soldiers reached the perimeter wire before the final attack failed.North Vietnamese pressure on Khe Sanh eased in March as improved weather resulted in even heavier American air and artillery attacks. With the arrival of a joint Army-Marine relief force, American commanders declared an end to the siege on April 8.AdvertisementIn the weeks ahead, the Army forces departed and fresh Marine battalions arrived, encountering even bloodier combat than during the siege. But by then the reporters had moved on, and General Westmoreland was on his way out, replaced by Gen. Creighton Abrams. In early July, Khe Sanh Combat Base was dismantled, and, in a scene that foreshadowed the events of April 1975, the last Americans left hurriedly by helicopter. North Vietnamese radio proclaimed victory at Khe Sanh.Nearly 1,000 Americans died in the 1968 fighting around Khe Sanh (far more than the discredited official toll). Estimates of Communist losses ranged from 2,500 to 15,000 killed.The full intentions of the North Vietnamese at Khe Sanh remain unclear. For decades, the Hanoi party line has held that Khe Sanh was solely a ruse to mask the urban attacks — a self-serving claim by ideologues who view history as a tool of the revolution rather than a search for objective truth. That claim has been amplified by respected Vietnam War correspondents such as Neil Sheehan and the late Stanley Karnow. Largely ignored is a competing analysis that contends the North Vietnamese intended to cap their 1968 offensive with the coup de grâce inflicted on the Americans at Khe Sanh. Until the Vietnamese government opens its wartime archives, we won’t know for sure what Khe Sanh was about.Gregg Jones is the author of “Last Stand at Khe Sanh” and “Honor in the Dust: Theodore Roosevelt, War in the Philippines, and the Rise and Fall of America’s Imperial Dream.”Subscribe to the Vietnam &apos;67 newsletter.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 