AdvertisementSupported bySince its founding in 1975, Soho Rep has sheltered the theatrically unruly and risky and weird. “We think people might really hate this one — and then we’re very excited about it,” Cynthia Flowers, the company’s executive director, said. Here’s a quick look at some of the most form-twisting, boundary-breaking and acclaimed works the theater has produced. ALEXIS SOLOSKIOne of the first plays that pushed Soho Rep beyond dramatic classics, this eccentric Len Jenkin drama had a story, impossible to parse, which somehow involved occultists, oculists and a stolen diamond. In his review in The New York Times, Mel Gussow called it “a series of B-movie plots encased in Chinese boxes.” It prompted the designer John Arnone to fill the theater’s original Mercer Street space with outsized projections, flashing lights and a carnival shooting gallery.Soho Rep has had a long relationship with Mac Wellman, a playwright with a boldly unconventional approach to language and story structure. In this jubilantly nonsensical solo show, which ran in repertory with Mr. Wellman’s “Three Americanisms,” the actor Stephen Mellor took audiences on — to borrow the play’s subtitle — “a spiritual history of America through the medium of bad language”: “Why Russia? Why Brooklyn? Why lard?”One of the standout shows from Daniel Aukin’s tenure as artistic director, this teasingly bittersweet Melissa James Gibson play reopened the Walker Street space after the Sept. 11 attacks. Ms. Gibson, who went on to become a “House of Cards” showrunner, turned her rapid-fire language on three neighbors in the midst of articulate quarter-life crises. Bruce Weber called the play, which featured a knockout triplex design from Louisa Thompson, “a verbally dexterous and neurotically wise comedy.”A year after Sarah Benson took over as artistic director, she staged Sarah Kane’s harrowing drama, a play that out-Becketts Beckett in its vision of devastation. Marin Ireland, Reed Birney and Louis Cancelmi starred in this “astounding drama,” which Ben Brantley described as “a work of moral outrage.” Ms. Thompson transformed the theater into a space of intimate devastation, cutting a hole in the floor to accommodate a scene with a severed head.Branden Jacobs-Jenkins’s brainy and anguished rewrite of a classic melodrama played with ideas of race, representation and the peculiar work of playwriting itself. Reviewing Ms. Benson’s “exhilarating, booby-trapped production,” brilliantly designed by Mimi Lien, Ben Brantley wrote that it “invites us to laugh loudly and easily at how naïve the old stereotypes now seem, until suddenly nothing seems funny at all.”Advertisement