AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.James Comey sat down with Stephen Colbert on Tuesday and described the shock of being summarily fired from his position as F.B.I. director nearly a year ago. He also explained why he decided to write a book criticizing President Trump. Comey’s book, “A Higher Loyalty,” hit stores on Tuesday.Comey admitted to Colbert that he had been surprised by his firing, given that he was leading an investigation that had to do with the Trump campaign’s own dealings with Russia.COMEY: I actually was quite surprised, because I thought, ‘I’m leading the Russia investigation.’ Even though our relationship was becoming strained, there’s no way I’m going to get fired or whacked.COLBERT: Why? Why wouldn’t you get fired?COMEY: Because that would be a crazy thing to do. Why would you fire the F.B.I. director who is leading the Russia investigation?COLBERT: Because you’re leading the Russia investigation! I don’t know if you’ve dealt with mob bosses before, but they don’t like to be investigated.In recent days Trump has been furiously tweeting about Comey, even suggesting he should be put in jail. Comey told Colbert that the episode seemed to reflect the reasons he decided to write “A Higher Loyalty”: to remind the country that it should not take the president’s public acts too lightly.“My first reaction to those kinds of tweets is a shrug — like, ‘Oh, there he goes again.’ But actually then I caught myself and I said, ‘Wait a minute. If I’m shrugging, are the rest of the country shrugging? And does that mean we’ve become numb to this?’ It’s not O.K. for the president of the United States to say a private citizen should be in jail. It’s not normal, it’s not acceptable, it’s not O.K. But it’s happened so much, there’s a danger we’re now numb to it, and the norm has been destroyed. And I feel that norm destroying in my own shrug. So we can’t allow that to happen. We have to talk about it and call it out. It’s not O.K.” — JAMES COMEYTuesday was Tax Day, and it was even more hectic than usual: The I.R.S. website malfunctioned for much of the day. Jimmy Fallon and James Corden made a few tax-related quips based on other news items.“In honor of Tax Day, Hardee’s offered free breakfast biscuits if you said the password ‘made from scratch.’ Arby’s had a similar deal: They gave you a free roast beef sandwich with the password ‘made from squirrel.’” — JIMMY FALLON“It’s Tax Day. Of course Stormy Daniels did her taxes. I thought this was interesting: She listed her hush money from Donald Trump under ‘gross income.’” — JIMMY FALLON“Some great news for Donald Trump, though: Between the constant firings in the White House, the porn-star scandal and the Russia investigation, he was able to write off this entire year as a total loss.” — JAMES CORDEN“The I.R.S. says they expect to receive 17 million tax returns this week. And get this: They think that one or even two of them may be filled out correctly.” — JAMES CORDEN“The president is said to be furious about this book, because it combines the two things he hates most: criticism and reading.” — JIMMY KIMMEL, on “A Higher Loyalty”“I heard about an official in Japan who was arrested yesterday for taking out his garbage in the nude. Wow, when that guy takes out his junk he really takes out all of his junk.” — JIMMY FALLON“It was reported today that President Trump has been pushing for women’s health programs that are based on abstinence. Yeah, Trump said, ‘It was actually my wife’s idea.’” — CONAN O’BRIENHow do you describe a pizza bagel without saying the words “pizza” or “bagel”?Ice Cube seems really happy to be here.Cynthia Nixon, the actress running for governor of New York, will talk to Colbert on Wednesday.Each year the Tribeca Film Festival brings a crippling array of choices for attendees. Here are the films — new and old — that the festival’s co-founder Robert De Niro would see if he were you, complete with commentary.Advertisement