AdvertisementSupported byBookshelfBy Sam RobertsSince the beginning of the 20th century, New York has had the largest Jewish urban community in world history. Three new books explore the influence of the Jews and other immigrants on the city, from Jewish refugees first arriving here in the 17th century, to the 20th-century arrival of the Puerto Ricans and Dominicans, which substantially changed the demographics of the city going into the new millennium.In “Jewish New York: The Remarkable Story of a City and a People” (New York University Press), Deborah Dash Moore, Jeffrey S. Gurock, Annie Polland, Howard B. Rock and Daniel Soyer start with the arrival of 23 Jewish refugees from Recife, Brazil, in 1654, and then chronicle the growth of Jewish influence on the city through the 21st century, citing the success of several prominent New Yorkers, including two former Brooklynites, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Bernie Sanders.The authors acknowledge that much of this history has been well-trodden, which is why this synthesis of the three-volume “City of Promises” (by the same authors) intentionally focuses on the periods before and after the great waves of immigration from the 1840s through the 1920s, which created what the essayist Milton Klonsky called the “Ghetto of Eden.”The mid-20th-century Jewish experience is also explored by Stephen B. Shepard, the founding dean of the City University of New York’s Graduate School of Journalism, in “A Literary Journey to Jewish Identity: Re-Reading Bellow, Roth, Malamud, Ozick and Other Great Jewish Writers” (Bayberry Books). Inviting readers along on his personal intellectual odyssey, Mr. Shepard reappraises what he read growing up in the Bronx and at City College and how it shaped who he is. He quotes Samuel Norich, president of The Forward: “Literature is our liturgy. It’s the way we identify.”“Jewish New York” concludes that the state’s 1777 wartime constitution made it “the first state in the western world to confer total citizenship upon the Jews.” The book acknowledges the role of Jews as slave owners and their complicity with the owners of Southern cotton plantations.“Jewish New York” gives short shrift to several figures who probably merited more — including Police Constable Jacob Hays, who presided for the first half of the 19th century, and Joseph S. Marcus, whose Bank of the United States failed in 1931, arguably worsening the Depression.But it notes that by 1950, 40 percent of all American Jews lived in New York City. With a quarter of the city’s population, Jews made up its largest ethnic group. Moreover, it points out that in contrast to many immigrant groups, the Jewish population is growing again, because of the influx of Jews from Russia and disproportionately high birthrates among the Orthodox.While Israel remains the heart of Judaism to many American Jews, Professor Douglas Rushkoff of Queens College suggests that many New Yorkers share a different perspective. For those Jews, the authors conclude, “New York is the motherland.”The Jewish population of New York City in the 21st century has easily surpassed 1 million, but there are now more than 2 million Hispanic New Yorkers — most of them Dominicans and Puerto Ricans. They make up about 29 percent of the city’s population, according to the latest edition of “Latinos in New York: Communities in Transition” (University of Notre Dame Press), edited by Sherrie Baver, Angelo Falcón and Gabriel Haslip-Viera.With “probably one of the most diverse Latino populations in the world,” the book states, “in many ways the city appears, in light of national trends, to represent the Latino future throughout the country.”Advertisement