AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and Brent MurrayHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. The White House is busy planning for President Trump’s potential meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea. The idea is so risky — and seemingly far-fetched — that some of Mr. Trump’s aides believe it will never happen. Above, a news broadcast in Seoul.Here’s what we know about Mr. Kim, the enigmatic 34-year-old dictator. And we have the back story of how two South Korean envoys brought Mr. Kim’s invitation to Washington. They were shocked when Mr. Trump accepted.Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper.____2. Midwestern farmers are worried that they could be hurt as other countries retaliate against the U.S. for imposing steep tariffs on steel and aluminum. Above, Eldon Gould, who exports soybeans and corn, with a baby hog on his farm in Illinois.Mr. Trump ordered the tariffs on Thursday despite protests from key allies — including his top economic adviser, Gary Cohn, who resigned.Our Op-Ed columnist Paul Krugman, who won a Nobel Prize for his research on trade, is taking questions from readers on the subject. Ask yours here.____3. Less than a month after the Parkland shooting, Gov. Rick Scott of Florida signed firearm restrictions into law, above, breaking with the N.R.A. in a state known for gun rights. The legislation is called the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act.In Washington, the House is set to vote this week on the STOP School Violence Act, a bill that would authorize $50 million annually for safety improvements, including violence prevention training and developing a system for anonymous reports about threats.____4. China’s legislature voted to abolish presidential term limits on Sunday, allowing Xi Jinping, above, to rule indefinitely.Elsewhere in Beijing, our correspondent talked to artists using their work to protest the demolition of neighborhoods inhabited by poor migrants from rural areas. Their paintings, photos, songs and poetry are an unusual show of dissent — and some have already been censored.____5. “Why did they leave us there to face our deaths?” A French cement company is facing accusations that it paid ISIS and put employees at risk to preserve business in war-torn Syria. Above, Bruno Lafont, the former C.E.O. of Lafarge, in 2015.Near Damascus, government forces advanced on the rebel-held enclave of Eastern Ghouta, where civilians are hiding underground to escape airstrikes.Our Moscow bureau chief writes that nearly two and a half years after Russia intervened in Syria to prop up the government, Vladimir Putin finds himself stuck there.____6. Britain’s foreign secretary called Russia “a malign force around the world,” and vowed to retaliate if investigators find that Moscow was behind the apparent poisoning of a former spy and his daughter in southern England.Sergei Skripal, who once worked as a double agent for Britain, and his 33-year-old daughter, Yulia, were found unconscious on a bench. Above, investigators at the scene. The police say they were poisoned with a nerve agent difficult to produce outside a government lab.Russia’s foreign minister called the accusation “pure propaganda and the whipping up of hysteria.”____7. Elsewhere in Britain, educators are trying to make playgrounds more dangerous. Yes, you read that right.In a dramatic turnaround after decades of increasing safety measures, risk is now en vogue among childhood development experts. They say it helps build resilience and grit.Some schools are bringing in loose two-by-fours, reinstating sandboxes and leaving out the scissors and sharp-edged tape dispensers.It’s all under adult supervision, of course. “They normally only cut themselves once,” said one educator at a school in Shoeburyness, above.____8. “Saturday Night Live” parodied the season finale of “The Bachelor,” but with a twist: It was the special counsel Robert Mueller, played by Kate McKinnon, breaking up with a contestant played by Cecily Strong, above.As Mueller, McKinnon has some disappointing news for Strong regarding the investigation into contacts between the Trump campaign and Russia.“The reality is that, I don’t think that I can give you everything that you want right now,” she says. “And I think that you sense that.”____9. Since 1851, obituaries in The New York Times have been dominated by white men. On International Women’s Day, we introduced a new series, Overlooked, in an effort to change that.It begins with the stories of 15 extraordinary women who never got Times obituaries, including Diane Arbus, the photographer pictured above; Ida B. Wells, the anti-lynching activist; and Charlotte Brontë, the author.Our editor discussed how the project was born, and another explained why most obituaries we publish are still of white men. Do you have a suggestion for an “Overlooked” obit?____10. Finally, let’s look toward the future. In the Times Magazine music issue, we write about 25 songs that show where music is going.Sure, you could read it in print. But the digital presentation may be even better — each song plays as you scroll through the article. Above, Cardi B, whose song “Bodak Yellow” was in first place.Have a great week.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement