by Scott TobiasFeb. 1, 2018Welcome to Watching, The New York Times’s TV and movie recommendation site.Welcome to Watching, The New York Times’s TV and movie recommendation site. Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for February, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice. (Unfortunately, streaming information provided in our Watchlist listings applies only to viewers in the United States.) Every month, Netflix Canada adds a new batch of movies and TV shows to its library. Here are the titles we think are most interesting for February, broken down by release date. Netflix occasionally changes schedules without giving notice. (Unfortunately, streaming information provided in our Watchlist listings applies only to viewers in the United States.)As part of the wave of innovative Chicago fine-dining destinations, chef Jake Bickelhaupt’s 42 Grams picked up two Michelin stars within a year of opening, in part because of its uniquely intimate setting and ever-evolving menu. With Bickelhaupt’s wife, Alexa, running the front of the house, the two entered into a successful partnership that nonetheless buckled under the combined stresses of their personal and professional lives. “42 Grams” offers up the eye candy of a typical foodie doc, but it also witnesses the volatility and ego that sabotage their dreams.—As part of the wave of innovative Chicago fine-dining destinations, chef Jake Bickelhaupt’s 42 Grams picked up two Michelin stars within a year of opening, in part because of its uniquely intimate setting and ever-evolving menu. With Bickelhaupt’s wife, Alexa, running the front of the house, the two entered into a successful partnership that nonetheless buckled under the combined stresses of their personal and professional lives. “42 Grams” offers up the eye candy of a typical foodie doc, but it also witnesses the volatility and ego that sabotage their dreams.—The screenwriter Charlie Kaufman burst onto the scene with this wholly original, playfully surreal comedy about a portal into John Malkovich’s head that allows people to experience his state of being for 15 minutes at a time. Kaufman and director Spike Jonze delight in playing around in this metaphysical space, while also offering up such absurd creations as an office space on a half-floor and a 60-foot Emily Dickinson puppet. Yet “Being John Malkovich” is sneakily moving, turning on the common and melancholy yearning of what it’s like to want to escape your own skin.—The screenwriter Charlie Kaufman burst onto the scene with this wholly original, playfully surreal comedy about a portal into John Malkovich’s head that allows people to experience his state of being for 15 minutes at a time. Kaufman and director Spike Jonze delight in playing around in this metaphysical space, while also offering up such absurd creations as an office space on a half-floor and a 60-foot Emily Dickinson puppet. Yet “Being John Malkovich” is sneakily moving, turning on the common and melancholy yearning of what it’s like to want to escape your own skin.—Loosely based on Susan Orlean’s magazine article “Surf Girls of Maui,” this late-summer hit from 2002 may be primarily about beautiful beaches and bodies in motion, but it overachieves in every respect. Director John Stockwell, who made the fine teen romance “Crazy/Beautiful,” has a good handle on the emotional state of a gifted young surfer (Kate Bosworth) who’s trying to make it back in the water after near-fatal incident. Her comeback follows the usual sports-movie formula, but for surfing footage so spectacularly rendered, that much is forgiven.—Loosely based on Susan Orlean’s magazine article “Surf Girls of Maui,” this late-summer hit from 2002 may be primarily about beautiful beaches and bodies in motion, but it overachieves in every respect. Director John Stockwell, who made the fine teen romance “Crazy/Beautiful,” has a good handle on the emotional state of a gifted young surfer (Kate Bosworth) who’s trying to make it back in the water after near-fatal incident. Her comeback follows the usual sports-movie formula, but for surfing footage so spectacularly rendered, that much is forgiven.—Before “Friday Night Lights” was developed into one of best dramas in recent network history, it existed onscreen as a solid adaptation of Buzz Bissinger’s nonfiction book about a football-obsessed small town in Texas. Director Peter Berg doesn’t have time to explore fully the characters and social complexities of Bissinger’s book, but he does capture the pressure-cooker atmosphere of a place where football is religion. All that pressure is brought to bear on the coach (Billy Bob Thornton), who’s expected to win every game or lose his job.—Before “Friday Night Lights” was developed into one of best dramas in recent network history, it existed onscreen as a solid adaptation of Buzz Bissinger’s nonfiction book about a football-obsessed small town in Texas. Director Peter Berg doesn’t have time to explore fully the characters and social complexities of Bissinger’s book, but he does capture the pressure-cooker atmosphere of a place where football is religion. All that pressure is brought to bear on the coach (Billy Bob Thornton), who’s expected to win every game or lose his job.—“In Good Company” has a record-scratch of a premise: A middle-aged advertising executive (Dennis Quaid) not only cedes his position to a new boss half his age (Topher Grace), he’s also dealt the added humiliation having that young man date his daughter (Scarlett Johansson). Yet writer-director Paul Weitz, fresh off “About a Boy,” works the premise through an unexpectedly low-key comedy-drama, where the power dynamic between the two men shifts back and forth, revealing vulnerabilities about each.—“In Good Company” has a record-scratch of a premise: A middle-aged advertising executive (Dennis Quaid) not only cedes his position to a new boss half his age (Topher Grace), he’s also dealt the added humiliation having that young man date his daughter (Scarlett Johansson). Yet writer-director Paul Weitz, fresh off “About a Boy,” works the premise through an unexpectedly low-key comedy-drama, where the power dynamic between the two men shifts back and forth, revealing vulnerabilities about each.—Duncan Jones’s auspicious directorial debut feels composed of equal parts “2001: A Space Odyssey” and “Dark Star.” Like the “2001,” it’s a metaphysical head-trip about an astronaut (Sam Rockwell) relying on a possibly diabolical sentient computer (GERTY, voiced by Kevin Spacey) for companionship. Like “Dark Star,” it has an abundance of low-budget charm, with a space station set that looks like an old rental, and an openness to whimsy. Rockwell stars as a loopy energy contractor who’s thrown into chaos just as his final year on a lunar outpost is about to end.—Duncan Jones’s auspicious directorial debut feels composed of equal parts “2001: A Space Odyssey” and “Dark Star.” Like the “2001,” it’s a metaphysical head-trip about an astronaut (Sam Rockwell) relying on a possibly diabolical sentient computer (GERTY, voiced by Kevin Spacey) for companionship. Like “Dark Star,” it has an abundance of low-budget charm, with a space station set that looks like an old rental, and an openness to whimsy. Rockwell stars as a loopy energy contractor who’s thrown into chaos just as his final year on a lunar outpost is about to end.—With a title that sounds like a reference to a B-movie monster, “Nightcrawler” offers a ferocious beast in its antihero (Jake Gyllenhaal), an amateur cameraman who seeks out grisly footage to feed the “If it bleeds, it leads” maxim of local broadcasts. His combination of ambition, shamelessness and moral vacuity makes him perfect for the job — and also the perfect target for the writer-director Dan Gilroy’s dark, scabrously funny attack on media venality. Gyllenhaal’s natural charisma makes it frighteningly easy to accept his character as a go-getter type, which allows Gilroy to escort the audience to some disturbing places.—With a title that sounds like a reference to a B-movie monster, “Nightcrawler” offers a ferocious beast in its antihero (Jake Gyllenhaal), an amateur cameraman who seeks out grisly footage to feed the “If it bleeds, it leads” maxim of local broadcasts. His combination of ambition, shamelessness and moral vacuity makes him perfect for the job — and also the perfect target for the writer-director Dan Gilroy’s dark, scabrously funny attack on media venality. Gyllenhaal’s natural charisma makes it frighteningly easy to accept his character as a go-getter type, which allows Gilroy to escort the audience to some disturbing places.—The Rolling Stones haven’t exactly been hurting for documentary immortalization, having already been the subject of films by the Maysles Brothers (“Gimme Shelter”) and Martin Scorsese (“Shine a Light”), just for starters. But the montage maestro Brett Morgen (“The Kid Stays in the Picture,” “Jane”) cuts together a fascinating, in-depth profile of the band from a combination of audio from new interviews and 50 years worth of archival film and video. If nothing else, the film is a reminder that the Stones were once revolutionaries, not just a bunch of dinosaurs playing the hits in football stadiums.—The Rolling Stones haven’t exactly been hurting for documentary immortalization, having already been the subject of films by the Maysles Brothers (“Gimme Shelter”) and Martin Scorsese (“Shine a Light”), just for starters. But the montage maestro Brett Morgen (“The Kid Stays in the Picture,” “Jane”) cuts together a fascinating, in-depth profile of the band from a combination of audio from new interviews and 50 years worth of archival film and video. If nothing else, the film is a reminder that the Stones were once revolutionaries, not just a bunch of dinosaurs playing the hits in football stadiums.—“A Most Violent Year” is the perfect example of the type of top-drawer production that would have thrived in theaters in the ’60s and ’70s — it might have shared marquee space with a film like “Serpico” — but doesn’t fit any contemporary model for success. This superb third feature from J.C. Chandor (“Margin Call,” “All Is Lost”) stars Oscar Isaac as a straight-arrow heating-oil magnate who has to bend the rules when payments on a new waterfront fuel yard come due and his drivers are suddenly harassed by violent carjackings. That leads some of the drivers to start carrying, themselves. We watch as a good man is led down the road to corruption.—“A Most Violent Year” is the perfect example of the type of top-drawer production that would have thrived in theaters in the ’60s and ’70s — it might have shared marquee space with a film like “Serpico” — but doesn’t fit any contemporary model for success. This superb third feature from J.C. Chandor (“Margin Call,” “All Is Lost”) stars Oscar Isaac as a straight-arrow heating-oil magnate who has to bend the rules when payments on a new waterfront fuel yard come due and his drivers are suddenly harassed by violent carjackings. That leads some of the drivers to start carrying, themselves. We watch as a good man is led down the road to corruption.—In his first big swing for the studio fences, director Jeff Nichols (“Mud,” “Take Shelter”) leaned heavily on Steven Spielberg’s “Close Encounters of the Third Kind” for inspiration, but he couldn’t help making a Jeff Nichols film instead. Audiences didn’t know what to make of this interstellar curiosity, but cult fandom surely awaits this story of a father (a typically wired Michael Shannon) who steals back his son — a boy with extraordinary and perhaps otherworldly powers — from a religious cult that has been built around him. “Midnight Special” has that “Close Encounters” mix of obsession and wonder, but it is filtered through a more peculiar sensibility.—In his first big swing for the studio fences, director Jeff Nichols (“Mud,” “Take Shelter”) leaned heavily on Steven Spielberg’s “Close Encounters of the Third Kind” for inspiration, but he couldn’t help making a Jeff Nichols film instead. Audiences didn’t know what to make of this interstellar curiosity, but cult fandom surely awaits this story of a father (a typically wired Michael Shannon) who steals back his son — a boy with extraordinary and perhaps otherworldly powers — from a religious cult that has been built around him. “Midnight Special” has that “Close Encounters” mix of obsession and wonder, but it is filtered through a more peculiar sensibility.—Quentin Tarantino’s biggest hit is also among his most audacious, a historical revenge fantasy along the lines of “Inglourious Basterds” but with the action leading to a Mississippi plantation during slavery. Tarantino tramples over any sacrosanct notions of how such a racially sensitive topic might be approached — and in the same year “12 Years a Slave” won an Oscar, no less. But there’s plenty of righteous exploitation-style kick to this story of a freed-slave (Jamie Foxx) who teams up with a bounty hunter (Christoph Waltz) to liberate his girlfriend (Kerry Washington) from an evil slaver (Leonardo DiCaprio).—Quentin Tarantino’s biggest hit is also among his most audacious, a historical revenge fantasy along the lines of “Inglourious Basterds” but with the action leading to a Mississippi plantation during slavery. Tarantino tramples over any sacrosanct notions of how such a racially sensitive topic might be approached — and in the same year “12 Years a Slave” won an Oscar, no less. But there’s plenty of righteous exploitation-style kick to this story of a freed-slave (Jamie Foxx) who teams up with a bounty hunter (Christoph Waltz) to liberate his girlfriend (Kerry Washington) from an evil slaver (Leonardo DiCaprio).—Shooting over 90 days in 21 countries, the documentary director Greg Barker expected to cement the legacies of three Barack Obama foreign policy appointees: Ben Rhodes, the Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications; Samantha Power, the Ambassador to the United Nations; and Secretary of State John Kerry. But the election of Donald Trump turned “The Final Year” into an excruciating run-down of hard-won negotiations and accomplishments that were deemed likely to undone by the coming administration. Depending on your political persuasion, it’s either a bittersweet reminder of Obama-era policymaking or a cause for schadenfreude.—Shooting over 90 days in 21 countries, the documentary director Greg Barker expected to cement the legacies of three Barack Obama foreign policy appointees: Ben Rhodes, the Deputy National Security Adviser for Strategic Communications; Samantha Power, the Ambassador to the United Nations; and Secretary of State John Kerry. But the election of Donald Trump turned “The Final Year” into an excruciating run-down of hard-won negotiations and accomplishments that were deemed likely to undone by the coming administration. Depending on your political persuasion, it’s either a bittersweet reminder of Obama-era policymaking or a cause for schadenfreude.—Netflix gambled smartly by picking up this Golden Bear-winning Hungarian drama, which just made the cut for an Oscar nomination for best foreign language film. Geza Morcsanyi and Alexandra Borbely star as workers at a slaughterhouse who happen to have the same dream every night, where they’re deer that meet in the forest and fall in love. It seems only natural that the two are fated to be together, but reality and dreams turn out to be some distance apart.—Netflix gambled smartly by picking up this Golden Bear-winning Hungarian drama, which just made the cut for an Oscar nomination for best foreign language film. Geza Morcsanyi and Alexandra Borbely star as workers at a slaughterhouse who happen to have the same dream every night, where they’re deer that meet in the forest and fall in love. It seems only natural that the two are fated to be together, but reality and dreams turn out to be some distance apart.—The nation’s most prominent and controversial feminist lawyer, Gloria Allred was in the news recently for representing one of the women accusing Roy Moore, the Alabama Republican candidate for United States Senate, of sexual misconduct with a minor. This admiring documentary profile from Sophie Sartain and Roberta Grossman catches Allred just as she was shining a big media spotlight on a wave of Bill Cosby’s accusers. But the film also takes a broader view of Allred’s advocacy for women, and how it was able to develop considerable power.—The nation’s most prominent and controversial feminist lawyer, Gloria Allred was in the news recently for representing one of the women accusing Roy Moore, the Alabama Republican candidate for United States Senate, of sexual misconduct with a minor. This admiring documentary profile from Sophie Sartain and Roberta Grossman catches Allred just as she was shining a big media spotlight on a wave of Bill Cosby’s accusers. But the film also takes a broader view of Allred’s advocacy for women, and how it was able to develop considerable power.—This promising (and expensive-looking) Netflix Original series has a “Blade Runner” look and an intriguing premise, set in a future where human consciousness can be preserved on disks and transferred to new bodies. Joel Kinnaman plays one such body, a handsome specimen with martial-arts skills who’s trying to solve a murder while experiencing echoes of previous corporeal forms. “Altered Carbon” has the look of modern noir — and a reputed abundance of sex and violence to match — but the premise opens up the possibility for a hard sci-fi treatment of memory and identity.—This promising (and expensive-looking) Netflix Original series has a “Blade Runner” look and an intriguing premise, set in a future where human consciousness can be preserved on disks and transferred to new bodies. Joel Kinnaman plays one such body, a handsome specimen with martial-arts skills who’s trying to solve a murder while experiencing echoes of previous corporeal forms. “Altered Carbon” has the look of modern noir — and a reputed abundance of sex and violence to match — but the premise opens up the possibility for a hard sci-fi treatment of memory and identity.—