by Margaret LyonsApril 3, 2018Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here.Recommending this show is bittersweet today because one of its creators, Steven Bochco, died on Sunday. Whether you’re honoring his legacy or introducing yourself to the 15th Precinct, “NYPD Blue” — finally available to stream — is worth watching as both a historical specimen and a still-potent police drama.Recommending this show is bittersweet today because one of its creators, Steven Bochco, died on Sunday. Whether you’re honoring his legacy or introducing yourself to the 15th Precinct, “NYPD Blue” — finally available to stream — is worth watching as both a historical specimen and a still-potent police drama.The show debuted in 1993, and holy smokes is that first season a time capsule. “ER,” which began only a season later, feels much more contemporary and could air more or less as-is today. Not so for “Blue,” which moves slowly in its first season, its hazy-lusty aesthetic blending with rough, tough characters, all housed in a brutal griminess. I think I’m legally required to call the show “gritty,” and so I will.The show debuted in 1993, and holy smokes is that first season a time capsule. “ER,” which began only a season later, feels much more contemporary and could air more or less as-is today. Not so for “Blue,” which moves slowly in its first season, its hazy-lusty aesthetic blending with rough, tough characters, all housed in a brutal griminess. I think I’m legally required to call the show “gritty,” and so I will.My favorite “NYPD Blue” is Jimmy Smits-era “NYPD Blue,” which is Seasons 2 through 6. Season 6 is, to put it mildly, a huge bummer, but the show picks up again. By its 12th and final season, it is definitely out of juice, but there are glimmers of good arcs and moments till the bitter end, especially from Dennis Franz, whose long-suffering Andy Sipowicz became the beating heart of the series.My favorite “NYPD Blue” is Jimmy Smits-era “NYPD Blue,” which is Seasons 2 through 6. Season 6 is, to put it mildly, a huge bummer, but the show picks up again. By its 12th and final season, it is definitely out of juice, but there are glimmers of good arcs and moments till the bitter end, especially from Dennis Franz, whose long-suffering Andy Sipowicz became the beating heart of the series.Most cop shows are about crime or maybe cleverness. “NYPD Blue” is more about pain — its police officers are in near-constant distress, and its victims, witnesses and sometimes its perpetrators are in a state of suffering. That’s part of what makes “NYPD Blue” so interesting and special, but it’s also why the show became tiring toward the end.If you want to visit or revisit highlights from Bochco’s stunning body of work, “Murder One,” “Doogie Howser, M.D.,” and “Hill Street Blues” are also available on Hulu.Most cop shows are about crime or maybe cleverness. “NYPD Blue” is more about pain — its police officers are in near-constant distress, and its victims, witnesses and sometimes its perpetrators are in a state of suffering. That’s part of what makes “NYPD Blue” so interesting and special, but it’s also why the show became tiring toward the end.If you want to visit or revisit highlights from Bochco’s stunning body of work, “Murder One,” “Doogie Howser, M.D.,” and “Hill Street Blues” are also available on Hulu.This show has no narrative connection to last year’s superb mini-series “National Treasure,” about a disgraced comedian, but the shows share a creative team. “Kiri” is a four-part crime drama — another “dead-kid show,” bleak and well-acted and sad. The show centers on the murder of a young black girl in foster care; she’s about to be adopted by a white family and is killed while visiting with her birth family. Sarah Lancashire of “Happy Valley” fame stars as the terrified social worker who finds herself being scapegoated in the media and by the grieving families.This show has no narrative connection to last year’s superb mini-series “National Treasure,” about a disgraced comedian, but the shows share a creative team. “Kiri” is a four-part crime drama — another “dead-kid show,” bleak and well-acted and sad. The show centers on the murder of a young black girl in foster care; she’s about to be adopted by a white family and is killed while visiting with her birth family. Sarah Lancashire of “Happy Valley” fame stars as the terrified social worker who finds herself being scapegoated in the media and by the grieving families.The N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship airs Monday at 7 p.m. on TBS, with Michigan taking on Villanova. Ah, it was fun while it lasted, Ramblers.The N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship airs Monday at 7 p.m. on TBS, with Michigan taking on Villanova. Ah, it was fun while it lasted, Ramblers.ABC’s new supernatural drama “The Crossing” debuts at 10 p.m. on Monday. If this show had debuted in the summer of 2003, it would have been my favorite thing ever — sad people wash up on a beach in the Pacific Northwest, claiming to be refugees from the future. It’s a little like the “return from an alien abduction” drama “The 4400,” or “Lost” and all its knockoffs.ABC’s new supernatural drama “The Crossing” debuts at 10 p.m. on Monday. If this show had debuted in the summer of 2003, it would have been my favorite thing ever — sad people wash up on a beach in the Pacific Northwest, claiming to be refugees from the future. It’s a little like the “return from an alien abduction” drama “The 4400,” or “Lost” and all its knockoffs.This week is the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Documentaries abound: “King in the Wilderness” airs on HBO on Monday at 8 p.m.; PBS is rebroadcasting its “Roads to Memphis” from 2010 on Tuesday at 8 p.m. (check local listings); and “I Am MLK Jr.” airs Wednesday at 9 p.m. on Paramount Network.This week is the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Documentaries abound: “King in the Wilderness” airs on HBO on Monday at 8 p.m.; PBS is rebroadcasting its “Roads to Memphis” from 2010 on Tuesday at 8 p.m. (check local listings); and “I Am MLK Jr.” airs Wednesday at 9 p.m. on Paramount Network.“Fixer Upper” ends its influential run Tuesday beginning at 9 p.m. on HGTV.“Fixer Upper” ends its influential run Tuesday beginning at 9 p.m. on HGTV.Tracy Morgan and Tiffany Haddish star in the new comedy “The Last O.G.,” starting Tuesday at 10:30 p.m. on TBS.Tracy Morgan and Tiffany Haddish star in the new comedy “The Last O.G.,” starting Tuesday at 10:30 p.m. on TBS.The Australian director Gillian Armstrong is known for period dramas like “My Brilliant Career” and the 1994 “Little Women” adaptation starring Winona Ryder. But the strangest entry in her filmography is the punky Australian musical comedy “Starstruck.” Its plot is classic Hollywood: A 14-year-old aspiring music impresario in Sydney, Angus (Ross O’Donovan), schemes to make his cousin, the quirky bar worker Jackie (Jo Kennedy), into a pop star. Love, disappointment and ill-advised publicity stunts ensue.The Australian director Gillian Armstrong is known for period dramas like “My Brilliant Career” and the 1994 “Little Women” adaptation starring Winona Ryder. But the strangest entry in her filmography is the punky Australian musical comedy “Starstruck.” Its plot is classic Hollywood: A 14-year-old aspiring music impresario in Sydney, Angus (Ross O’Donovan), schemes to make his cousin, the quirky bar worker Jackie (Jo Kennedy), into a pop star. Love, disappointment and ill-advised publicity stunts ensue.