AdvertisementSupported byWordplayBy Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE — This is only Ryan McCarty’s third Times puzzle; he’s a Thursday/Saturday kind of guy, so far. I took one glance at it and filled in the 11-letter entry at 14D, BARBARA EDEN, with the utmost confidence. I rarely know a long answer right off the bat, especially on a Friday or Saturday, but when I do it usually winds up boosting me into a euphoric state of such misplaced self-confidence that I proceed to flub at least an entire corner, which I did at the northeast.This puzzle had a vertical bent, with quite a few long entries running through the down clues — one triple stack of 11-letter entries and two triple stacks of 10-letters. I think as a result of this Mr. McCarty seemed positively parsimonious with his small filler words. No complaints here: I found nothing contorted, just a couple that drew on some knowledge of pop culture.A few entries were devilish, simply from their letter arrangements. RATED G, GEAR TRAINS, UV LAMP, BEERYS — I could see these stopping solvers in their tracks.1A: I assumed that “Pilot control?” referred to some sort of aeronautics, despite the punctuation, but still for some reason settled firmly on “gas cap.” That led to the now-inconceivable “canna” at 4D, for a “Quaint retort” (thinking of the Scottish “can not,” I guess? My gosh), and then “gaga” at 19A, “Glued to something.” Disaster. Once I’d unraveled it all this clue was still my last solve — I thought GAS TAP sounded made up. It’s actually in reference to a pilot light, on a stove, which relies on the gas line (or “tap”) to boil or simmer.20A: If you noticed the photo up top, my mind went way, way offbase when I filled in this answer to “sluggers,” BIG BATS. They’re both baseball terms, of course. Opening day is March 29 this year! Earliest start to the season ever, in the United States.22A: If you’ve been dying to try yoga but worried about all the yelling, bullying and orders to drop and do push-ups, that’s boot camp. Yoga will never command you to do anything that you don’t pretty much have to do to live — in this case, EXHALE. Just try to breathe without doing that, Ms. Balloon.26A: People may query this wild interpretation of what sounds so simple, the “Opposite of downs.” Shouldn’t the answer be ups, acrosses or some synonym thereof? Instead it’s SIPS. In this case, “down” is a verb, meaning to chug. The opposite of a greedy chug, unless you’re Bluto from “Animal House,” would be a nice, refined sip.48A: Well, the only work I really know by Ravel is “Bolero,” and fortunately it fit … But I’d never really thought about how that piece of music was constructed, so it was cool to consider its orchestration. This is a fun, flash-mobbed rendition where you can distinctly tell when each instrument makes an appearance, because often that instrument actually does make its appearance.2D: This is one of those specific pop culture entries that come and go like the latest ombre hair trend. ANIMANIACS was a cartoon with three doglike cat (or catlike dog) siblings going on various adventures, intended to “capture the anarchic, reference-heavy comedy of the original Looney Tunes” according to the Verge. So much for my trendcasting, as I now know that Steven Spielberg is producing a remake of these little creatures this year, so in six months we may all be running around with “Animaniacs!” T-shirts and laptop stickers.9D: “Giveaways,” to me, mean free stuff, which is one of those solutions to and causes of all life’s problems; sometimes the thing you’re most excited to have fall in your lap becomes the biggest albatross around your neck, like a free piano. In this case, Mr. McCarty means the giving away or expression of some emotions, cracks in a bluffing poker player’s armor — also known as TELLS.23D: I had a mental block here and fixated on “stud” as horse, and “spot” as “horse farm” or some variant thereof. “Stud” could also be a Brad Pitt type, but it can also be a simple piece of jewelry that goes in a PIERCED EAR.48D: This little guy, why I oughta … It’s hard to make a three-letter word a stumper but boy, I fell for this one. My first line of thought was something techy like IBM, because, why couldn’t it be like 1981 again? But I figured out “Bolero” and stuck to the B as the first letter and was sure that there must be some apple breed that would fit in here. Nope! The answer is BUB. I’m going to make myself use “Bub” on someone this week. Wish me luck!By pure coincidence, this puzzle happens to run on my fiancé’s birthday, so I’ll take that as an opportunity to talk about him a bit. Quinton and I met as students at Princeton, both singing in the Princeton Nassoons (a cappella group) and the Chamber Choir. After graduation he spent a year in Tajikistan on a fellowship before joining me in the D.C. area, where we now both work on federal contracts. Although I usually enjoy doing The New York Times themeless puzzles solo, I love him enough to save some Fridays and Saturdays to solve together every few weeks. He especially helps with foreign language, geography and vocabulary clues. We’ll see if he can finish this one solo!This puzzle is a bit un-millennial of me in that much of the grid is skewed toward older references, which may trip up some younger solvers. I’ve always been a fan of wide open grids with heavy intersection, even at the sacrifice to some overall zippiness and trendiness in the grid entries. It often makes it more of a challenge to both construct and solve, which I appreciate. This puzzle is an example of this constructing style: it doesn’t quite have the youthful verve throughout, but I think the overall fill quality and intersection in the middle makes up for it. The side sections were a bit more flexible — only the unfortunate plural BEERYS which I didn’t like, but liked better than the inelegance of adding a black square in the corner.Hope you like this (unexpected) birthday present, Quinton!Slip on the ice one too many times? You can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.What did you think?Advertisement