AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Liel LeibovitzMr. Leibovitz is a senior writer for Tablet Magazine and the author of “A Broken Hallelujah: Rock and Roll, Redemption, and the Life of Leonard Cohen.”“Dude, are you watching Kanye right now?”I was trying to get some work done and so had logged off of Twitter, that black hole of permanent distraction. But I couldn’t escape the nonstop emails and texts from my friends suggesting that I drop everything and watch the rapper’s feed. So, like the rest of America, I did.There, @kanyewest, I was treated to a torrent of pro-Trump statements, including a photograph of West’s red “Make America Great Again” baseball cap, autographed by the president himself. “You don’t have to agree with Trump,” Kanye tweeted on, “but the mob can’t make me not love him. We are both dragon energy.” Not one to miss out on an endorsement, Trump tweeted right back, thanking Kanye and adding a “very cool!” for emphasis.Knowing that I dislike Trump almost as much as I like Kanye, my friends were curious: Did I admire the artist less now that he’s referred to the president as his brother?It’s an easy question, one that we Israelis have had a lifetime to ponder.Growing up in Tel Aviv, I would often grow enamored of a band, a writer or a filmmaker only to discover that my new celebrity crush was, to put it mildly, not a big fan of my country. At first, I resolved to disavow anyone whose politics I found reprehensible. I tossed aside those Brian Eno CDs, convincing myself that I had no business enjoying the music, no matter how entrancing, of someone who was calling for a boycott of Israel. I bored roommates at the time with endless rants against a musician for speaking his mind.Even at my most indignant, something nagged. After all, the thing that angered me about Eno was the very same thing that made me love him in the first place, namely his ability to express deep emotions candidly for others to consider. That, by definition, is what a great artist does. Listen to Kanye’s 2010 masterpiece, “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy,” and you’ll hear an artist not only wrestling with all of his demons — “No one man should have all that power / The clock’s ticking, I just count the hours” — but sharing a flute of bubbly with them once he realizes the wrestling match is one he could never win.Anyone who has marveled at Kanye’s ability to unmoor himself from reality in pursuit of his music should have no trouble understanding the mind-set that unleashed his latest tweetstorm.This insight — that creative, experimental people might embrace some ideas that you despise because they are creative and experimental — is one Israelis have long learned to embrace. Lorde remains immensely popular in Tel Aviv, even after canceling her concert there. Massive Attack is still played on the radio, even though the band’s members criticized Israel’s conduct during the 2014 war with Hamas in Gaza. And those hard-core “Star Wars” nerds among us who can stomach Episodes I, II, and III still enjoy them even though Padmé Amidala, or Natalie Portman, recently refused to accept an award in Israel to protest the policies of the current government.Americans living through the Trump presidency should take note: Make everything about politics, and your culture will soon turn to scorched earth.Perhaps it’s too late. We live in what is rapidly resembling the cultural equivalent of the Bikini Atoll. Each day, it seems, a new person is deleted: Tim Allen, Roseanne, Shania Twain. Even Cardi B seemed at risk when she griped about her taxes.And those who do their best to steer clear of politics aren’t safe, either. Enjoy Taylor Swift these days — I do! — and you may be taken to task by some sourpuss griping about the singer’s refusal to state her partisan allegiance on Instagram.This is not to say that we should condone our artists when they say something truly heinous. But, all things considered, I’d rather live in a culture where artists feel free to leap or trip over the line of what’s acceptable rather than one in which the smallest misstep puts careers and reputations at risk.Leonard Cohen, who I had the pleasure of writing about and the privilege of knowing, understood this point intimately. Speaking to the Jewish community of Montreal in 1964, long before he first picked up a guitar and stepped onto a stage, Cohen explained that he was committed to following his art wherever it led him. Most people, he said, scandalizing the squares in attendance, would rather just visit lifeless objects in sterile museums rather than follow their muse into some jungle, running the risk of getting bitten by something wild. Cohen was never afraid of the risk, and it made him a great artist.Let us learn our lesson, then, and let our artists roam. A few maddening tweets are a small price to pay for what they give us.Liel Leibovitz (@liel) is a senior writer for Tablet Magazine and the author of “A Broken Hallelujah: Rock and Roll, Redemption, and the Life of Leonard Cohen.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.Advertisement