AdvertisementSupported byBy Melissa HoppertWilliam G. Douglas, a longtime reporter covering Washington politics for the McClatchy news service and the co-host of its Majority Minority podcast, somehow finds time in the 24-hour news cycle to write regularly about diversity in hockey in his popular blog, The Color of Hockey.Mr. Douglas fell for the game at an early age while growing up in Philadelphia. When the United States men’s hockey team plays its first game at the Pyeongchang Olympics, on Wednesday against Slovenia, Mr. Douglas will be there, keeping a close eye on Jordan Greenway, the first African-American to play for the team.I started The Color of Hockey in December 2012. It was born of the Stanley Cup playoffs series in 2012 between the Washington Capitals and the Boston Bruins. In that series, the Capitals forward Joel Ward, who now plays for the San Jose Sharks, scored the Game 7 overtime goal that eliminated the Bruins from the playoffs. The goal unleashed a torrent of racist social media posts aimed at Ward, who is black, from so-called Bruins fans. I had thought that we were beyond that in hockey, but I was wrong. So I decided to start the blog to help educate people — white and minority — that folks of color have a hockey history and a place in the game. I like to say that The Color of Hockey is about the history and growing impact of people of color in the game.I’m a goaltender who still plays about once a week, or as my work/family schedule allows. I started playing when I was 12 or 13 years old, growing up in Philadelphia. I was home sick watching T.V. and came across the 1972 Summit Series between Team Canada and the Soviet Union. I liked what I saw, but I really didn’t know what hockey was. So I looked it up in the encyclopedia. When I got well, I saved my allowance and bought a pair of skates. After I got proficient on blades, I saved more and bought goalie equipment. I taught myself to play the position, watching N.H.L. goalies on T.V. and reading Jacques Plante’s book on goaltending. I joined a bantam hockey team out of West Philadelphia that played at the University of Pennsylvania’s Class of 1923 rink. I progressed and played one season of Junior B-level hockey for a team that was called Red Lion and belonged to a league called the Junior Mid-Atlantic League. We weren’t very good as a team, but I learned a lot about goaltending because I saw a ton of shots.That’s an interesting question. My 19-year-old twin daughters ask me when I sleep. I tell them “I don’t know.” I blog as time allows — at least once a week, usually writing posts on the weekend while watching hockey on T.V. And sometimes my political work and hockey merge. I occasionally play pickup hockey with Capitol Hill staffers and lobbyists. I used to play morning pickup with a group that included the then-Sen. John Kerry of Massachusetts.I think the face of hockey is changing for several reasons. In many ways it reflects the changing of North America through the growth of minority populations and immigration. Karl Subban, the father of the Nashville Predators defenseman P.K. Subban, likes to tell the story about how he moved with his family from Jamaica to Sudbury, Ontario, as a boy and how hockey helped him assimilate into the Canadian fabric. I think increased affluence also has something to do with it. Minority families are moving out of cities and into suburbs and their kids are playing what their new friends are playing. It may be hockey, or soccer, or lacrosse. As for urban kids whose families who can’t afford hockey, there are a growing number of programs that provide equipment, ice time and instruction at little or no costs. These include programs like Philadelphia’s Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation, New York’s Ice Hockey in Harlem and Washington’s Fort Dupont Ice Hockey Club. Fort Dupont is the oldest minority-oriented youth hockey program in the United States.Greenway is huge — 6-foot-5, 230 pounds — at 20 years old. He’s a dangerous combination of size, speed and finesse. He earned his way onto the U.S. roster from his performance at the 2017 International Ice Hockey Federation World Junior Championship that was played in Montreal and Toronto. Greenway was consistently one of the best players on the ice. A man among boys is a sports cliché, but with his size and scoring hands, he was indeed a man among boys. He should be in the N.H.L. sometime after he finishes at Boston University. He’s a 2015 second-round draft pick of the Minnesota Wild. He has a younger brother, defenseman J.D. Greenway, who plays for the University of Wisconsin (coached by the U.S. Olympic hockey coach Tony Granato) and was drafted by the Toronto Maple Leafs in the third round of the 2016 N.H.L. Draft.• Sarah Nurse, a forward for Canada’s women’s hockey team. A black Canadian, she’s the cousin of Darnell Nurse, a defenseman with the N.H.L.’s Edmonton Oilers, and Kia Nurse, a point guard for the Connecticut women’s basketball team. Sarah Nurse tallied 76 goals and 61 assists in 150 games for the University of Wisconsin and could be one of Canada’s key scoring weapons at the Games.• Randi Griffin, a forward on Korea’s unified women’s hockey team. Griffin, who is half-Korean, is a North Carolinian who played college hockey at Harvard. Like a couple of other North Americans on the Korean team, she was initially recruited by Korean hockey officials via a blind email. She thought the email was a hoax and ignored it for months.• Brigette Lacquette, a defenseman for Canada’s women’s team. She’s Cote First Nation and has made it a mission to inspire First Nations/Native American youth with her play.As a fan, I have mixed feelings about the N.H.L. not being in Pyeongchang. It feels odd not having the best players in the world here. At the same time, the lack of N.H.L. starpower makes the men’s Olympic hockey tournament a wild card that could be full of surprises.Follow Melissa Hoppert on Twitter: @MHoppertNYT.Advertisement