AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Zraick and Sandra Stevenson(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. The poet Sylvia Plath. The photographer Diane Arbus, above. Ida B. Wells, the anti-lynching activist. These extraordinary women, and so many others, did not get New York Times obituaries. Until now.On International Women’s Day, we introduced a new series, “Overlooked.” We begin with obituaries for 15 women, and it will become a weekly feature.Our editor discussed how the idea came to her, and another explained why most obituaries we publish are still of white men. Do you have a suggestion for an “Overlooked” obit?____2. President Trump signed off on tough tariffs on steel and aluminum, defying opposition within his own party and protests from overseas. He exempted Canada and Mexico, and held out the possibility of later exempting other allies, such as Australia.Later on Thursday, Mr. Trump accepted an invitation from North Korea’s leader to meet for nuclear negotiations. It’s a breathtaking gamble.____3. Barack and Michelle Obama, Netflix stars?Insiders tell us that the former president and first lady are in advanced negotiations with the streaming service to produce a series that would provide them with a global platform.In one possible show idea, Mr. Obama would discuss or moderate conversations on topics that dominated his presidency, like health care, voting rights, immigration, foreign policy and climate change.____4. In California, businesses and local law enforcement agencies are caught in the middle of a fight over immigration.The Trump administration has filed a lawsuit seeking to nullify state laws that protect undocumented immigrants, as part of a larger crackdown.We talked to the head of an agricultural company in the Central Valley who complied with a federal audit of his payroll records. He also posted a notice about it for his workers, as required by state law. Many quit immediately.“I am a pawn caught between the federal and state governments, like a child between two fighting parents,” he said. “Each is threatening to punish me if I don’t listen.”____5. Clocks spring forward one hour on Sunday, and not everyone is happy about the ritual.Often, complaints take the form of calls to eliminate daylight saving time altogether. But Florida wants to move in the opposite direction. The State Senate has passed a bill that would make daylight saving time the year-round standard. Above, sunset in Tallahassee.There’s just one catch: federal law prohibits that. States can opt out of daylight saving time — Arizona and Hawaii do — but states are not allowed to exempt themselves from standard time.____6. China is all but certain to throw out a rule that restricts presidents to two five-year terms at the National People’s Congress this weekend. The beneficiary, President Xi Jinping, could be in power for life.Despite the display of support, murmurings of opposition suggest that Mr. Xi and his subordinates have not fully sold the idea to a broader public — or done much to explain it.Stirrings of internal discontent could build over time, our Beijing correspondents write. Here’s a look at Mr. Xi and his rise to power.____7. In our latest visual investigation, we show how villages in the Democratic Republic of Congo have been destroyed in recent attacks, forcing 140,000 people to flee.This Times Insider piece explains how we used active-fire data from NASA and Openstreetmap to bring the atrocities to light.____8. Madison, in southeastern Indiana, is a picturesque small town battling life-or-death problems.Residents struggle with drug addiction and mental health issues, as well as child abuse and neglect. The suicide rate is 3.2 times the national figure.Our reporter spent time with a high school football team that provides much-needed support to its young players.“I’d rather focus on the kids than the wins,” said the coach, above left. “Because I see what can happen to kids who stray.”____9. We talked to Adam Rippon, the outspoken 28-year-old figure skater who won a bronze medal at the Winter Olympics, about what he’s learned and where he’s going.He’s the first openly gay American man to qualify to compete in the Winter Games, and he criticized Vice President Mike Pence, who attended the Games, for his opposition to gay rights. Mr. Rippon also spoke out about body image and unhealthy dieting in the sport.“In skating you have four minutes to show the world what you’ve been working on your entire life,” he said. “If you can’t embrace who you are, how are you going to show a panel of judges or the world who you are in four minutes?”____10. Finally, the late-night hosts weighed in on a lawsuit filed by the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels, who says she had an affair with President Trump. Seth Meyers joked that he was surprised Mr. Trump didn’t hold a signing ceremony for a nondisclosure agreement.Here’s what else is on TV and streaming services Thursday.And we offer our recipe of the day: flourless cocoa cookies. They’re gluten-free, and you can whip them up in just 20 minutes.Have a great night.____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement