AdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Allison Delores McCracken and Raed Jarrar were married April 28 at the District of Columbia’s War Memorial, in Washington. Sarah R. Novick was authorized by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia as a temporary officiant.The bride and groom both work in the Washington office of Amnesty International, the human rights organization. She is the campaigner for North America, and operates as the liaison between the Amnesty branches in the United States and Canada and the rest of the organization. He works in the American branch of Amnesty as the advocacy director, and as a lobbyist, for Middle East and North African issues. They also both volunteer for the refugee resettlement program in Hyattsville, Md., of Lutheran Social Services.Mrs. Jarrar, 29, graduated from Hobart and William Smith Colleges.She is a daughter of Rebecca J. McCracken and Douglas S. McCracken of Old Saybrook, Conn. Her father, an electrical engineer, is an operations director in Berlin, Conn., for Eversource Energy, a gas and electric utility. Her mother is an optometric assistant at Professional Eyecare in Waterford, Conn.Mr. Jarrar, 40, graduated from the University of Baghdad and received a master’s degree in architectural engineering with an emphasis on postwar reconstruction from the University of Jordan. He successfully sued JetBlue Airways and the Transportation Security Authority after being told in 2006 that he wouldn’t be allowed to board his flight unless he covered a T-shirt he was wearing that said, “We Will Not Be Silent,” in both Arabic and English.He is a son of Faiza Al-Araji of Amman, Jordan, and the late Azzam Jarrar. The groom’s mother, a civil engineer, owns Arab Water Treatment Center, a regional water-treatment company with headquarters in Baghdad. His father, also a civil engineer, was an owner of the company.For two people immersed in social justice and antiwar work, where everything seems to happen at a glacial pace, love came in an instant.Read moreMargaret Anne Abernathy and Joshua Gerald Brost were married April 28 at the Stockdale Country Club, a golf course in Bakersfield, Calif. Representative Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California and the House majority leader, officiated.Ms. Abernathy, 32, is a law clerk for Judge Evan J. Wallach of the United States Court of Appeals in Washington. She graduated from Duke University and received a law degree from the University of Southern California.She is a daughter of Catherine Swajian Abernathy of Bakersfield, and the late Mark Abernathy. The bride’s mother is a lobbyist and a political consultant, with offices in Bakersfield and Washington, and is also a political commentator who is a regular host on the “The Ralph Bailey Show,” a political news program on KERN, a Bakersfield radio station. The bride’s father was a Republican political consultant in Bakersfield.Mr. Brost, 39, is the senior director of government business development, in Washington, for the Space Exploration Technologies Corporation, the aerospace manufacturer and space transportation services company in Hawthorne, Calif., that is better known as SpaceX. He graduated from Arizona State University, received a master’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Washington and an M.B.A. from Harvard.He is a son of Gerald M. Brost of Chippewa Falls, Wis., and the late Jerilyn Hanson Brost. The groom’s father retired as the vice president for engineering at Cray Research, in Chippewa Falls. From 1984 to 2014, the groom’s mother was a member of the Chippewa County board of supervisors, in Chippewa Falls.The groom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.Ms. Abernathy and Mr. Brost initially met in 2013, when both were working at SpaceX. She was still in law school at the time, and was serving on the legal team, while he was a manager for government sales and business development. Though they worked about 20 feet apart, they knew each other mostly as names on email distribution lists.Read moreKate Ann Wood and Steven Kent Gryskiewicz are to be married April 29 at Castlemartyr, a hotel in County Cork, Ireland. Teresa Graham, a humanist celebrant, is to officiate.The couple met at the University of Pennsylvania, from which each received an M.B.A.The bride, 33, is a managing director of Goldman Sachs in New York. She graduated from Boston University.She is a daughter of Nancy E. Wood and James F. Wood of Hudson, Ohio. The bride’s father is the director of the United States-China Clean Energy Research Center, Advanced Coal Technology Consortium at West Virginia University. He is the former deputy assistant secretary at the Department of Energy. Her mother is a licensed instrument-rated private pilot in Hudson.The groom, who is 35 and known as Kent, is a digital expert associate partner at McKinsey & Company in New York. He graduated from George Washington University with two bachelor’s degrees, one in political science and the other in sociology.He is a son of Nur D. Gryskiewicz and Stanley S. Gryskiewicz of Alexandria, Va. The groom’s parents are industrial organizational psychologists. His mother, who has a private practice in Alexandria, is an executive coach serving both public and private sector clients. His father is a founding member of the Center for Creative Leadership in Greensboro, N.C. He is also the board chair and founder of the Association for Managers of Innovation.While pursuing master’s degrees at Wharton in January 2014, Ms. Wood and Mr. Gryskiewicz went about the business of trying to get each other’s attention. At the time, they were both working full-time jobs, she in New York and he in Washington, and would meet at school every other week when attending classes.“She was amazing and beautiful,” he said, “and as soon as I heard her speak I knew that she was much smarter than me, and that was the number one thing that attracted me to her.”Read moreJillian Jihan Bell and Stephen Andrew Wood were married April 28 in an outdoor ceremony at Red Mountain Park in Birmingham, Ala. William Anthony Bell Jr., the brother of the bride and a district judge with the 10th Judicial Circuit in Jefferson County, Ala., officiated, with Kathryn Allison Wood, the sister of the groom, taking part in the ceremony.Ms. Bell, who is 36 and works in Greenwich, Conn., is the Schoolyard Habitat Program coordinator with the National Audubon Society, which is based in New York. She graduated from the University of Alabama and received a master’s degree in environmental education from Antioch University in Keene, N.H.She is the daughter of Sharon Carson Bell and William A. Bell of Birmingham. The bride’s father served as the mayor of Birmingham from 2010 to 2017. Her mother, who is retired, was the director of student support services for Birmingham City Schools.Dr. Wood, 33, is a scientist for both the Nature Conservancy and the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies in New Haven. He graduated from George Washington University and received a master’s degree in environmental science from Yale. He also received a Ph.D. in ecology, evolution and environmental biology from Columbia. From 2007-9 he worked as a sustainable agriculture volunteer for the Peace Corps in Senegal.He is the son of Maryann Parsons Wood and Jonathan H. Wood of Needham, Mass. The groom’s mother is a registered nurse in gastroenterology at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. His father is the director of global applications and technical support for Evoqua Water Technologies in Chelmsford, Mass.The couple met in 2015 on OkCupid.Carmen Patricia Isabel Collyns and Matthew Ross Heiman were married April 27 at the Superior Court of Washington.The bride, 30, is the manager of business operations at Honeybook, a technology start-up in San Francisco. She graduated from Harvard, from which she also received an M.B.A.She is a daughter of Myriam J. Collyns and Charles V. Collyns of Bethesda, Md. Her mother retired as a translator in the linguistics department of the International Monetary Fund in Washington; the bride’s father is a director of the fund. He previously served as the chief economist of the Institute of International Finance, and as the assistant secretary for international finance at the Department of the Treasury, both in Washington.Mr. Heiman, also 30, is an investor for Greylock Partners, a venture capital firm in Menlo Park, Calif. He graduated summa cum laude from Columbia and received an M.B.A. from Stanford.He is a son of Dr. Caren E. Greenstein of Westport, Conn., and Dr. Mark D. Heiman of Norwalk, Conn. The groom’s mother is a diagnostic radiologist and director of breast imaging at White Plains Hospital in White Plains. His father, a cardiologist, recently retired from private practice as a senior partner of Cardiology Associates of Fairfield County, Conn. He is now an assistant clinical professor of medicine at Columbia.The couple met in July 2010 at J.P. Morgan in New York while working there as analysts.Madeline Louise Cronin and Matthew Edward Aaronson were married April 28 at the Picnic House in Brooklyn. Joni Brenner, an ordained rabbinical chaplain, officiated.Mrs. Aaronson, 29, is a manager of organic growth in San Francisco for thredUP, an online fashion resale platform. She graduated from McGill University.She is a daughter of Cynthia Bogdanovich and Brian Cronin of Jersey City. The bride’s father owns Mobile Ski and Golf Network, an advertising firm based in Jersey City. Her mother is a teacher at Blue School, an independent preschool, elementary and middle school in Manhattan.Mr. Aaronson, also 29, is a director for product marketing at Demandbase, an online marketing technology platform in San Francisco. He graduated from the University of Michigan.He is the son of Anne B. Aaronson and Art H. Aaronson of Ridgefield, Conn. The groom’s mother is an interior designer in Ridgefield. His father, who works in Stamford, Conn., is a vice president of State Street Global Advisors, based in Boston.The couple met at a bar in Manhattan in 2012.Taylor Rhodes Dickinson and Andrew Peter Cordeiro were married April 28 at the Church of the Good Shepherd in Lookout Mountain, Tenn. The Rev. Mac Brown, an Episcopal minister, performed the ceremony.The couple met in Nashville at Vanderbilt University, from which they graduated. They each work at Goldman Sachs in New York, where the bride is an associate in the executive office and the groom is an associate in investment banking.The bride, 26, is a daughter of Tennyson R. Dickinson and Thomas C. Dickinson of Lookout Mountain. The bride’s father is a commercial Realtor at Fletcher Bright in Chattanooga, Tenn. The bride’s mother is a director at Lake Winnepesaukah Amusement Park in Rossville, Ga.The groom, 25, is the son of Carolyn R. Cordeiro and Dr. Peter G. Cordeiro of Westfield, N.J. The groom’s mother is a member of the board of the Society of Memorial Sloan Kettering. His father is a professor of surgery at Weill Cornell Medical College in New York and was the chief of plastic and reconstructive surgery at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York.Alicia Ana Hernandez-Roulet and Matthew Reed Steinhart were married April 28 at Castillo Serrallés, a museum in Ponce, P.R. Chief Judge Gustavo A. Gelpi Jr. of the Federal District Court in Puerto Rico officiated with the Rev. Walter Smedley IV, an Episcopal priest, leading the ceremony.The bride and groom met at Johns Hopkins, from which each graduated.Mrs. Steinhart, 29, is a visual presentation manager in Avon, Ind., for an Ashley Furniture HomeStore.She is the daughter of Laura Roulet and Rafael Hernandez-Mayoral of Bethesda, Md. The bride’s father is of counsel, in Washington, to the law firm Morrison & Foerster. Her mother is a freelance art curator in Bethesda.Mr. Steinhart, 30, is in the M.D./Ph.D. program at the Indianapolis campus of Indiana University. He completed the second year of medical school in March, and is now studying for a doctoral degree in neuroscience.He is a son of Barbara R. Steinhart and Victor R. Steinhart of Caldwell, N.J. The groom’s mother is a dental assistant in Mountain Lakes, N.J. His father is a salesman for the wholesale trade in the Bronx store of Tolnoy Lumber, a supplier of plywood, masonry and other building materials.Nicholas Andrew Hovsepian and Robert John Postotnik were married April 28 at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan. Ken Hovsepian, an uncle of Mr. Hovsepian who was ordained through First Nation Church, officiated.Mr. Hovsepian (left), 29, is a residential real estate agent in Brooklyn for the Corcoran Group. He graduated from N.Y.U.He is a son of Debbie A. Hovsepian and Steven L. Hovsepian of Franklin, Tenn. His mother is a Realtor in the Franklin office of Crye-Leike. His father is the senior manager of corporate security in the Franklin location of Nissan North America.Mr. Postotnik, 28, is the art director at AKA NYC, an entertainment advertising agency in Manhattan focusing on Broadway shows. He graduated from Oklahoma City University.He is the son of Mary A. Postotnik and Raymond A. Postotnik of Muskego, Wis. His mother is a marketing consultant in Milwaukee. His father is an area manager at Payne & Dolan, a building construction company in Kenosha, Wis.The couple met in 2012 at a mutual friend’s birthday party in Manhattan’s West Village.Christine Josephine Hu and Stephen Richard Barchick were married April 28 at the Duke University Chapel in Durham, N.C. The Rev. George Salzmann, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony.Mrs. Barchick, 26, is a first-year M.B.A. student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. From 2015-17, as a corps member of Teach for America, she was a third-grade teacher at Butner-Stem Elementary School in Butner, N.C. She graduated from Harvard.She is the daughter of Lowah C. Hu and Peter Y. Hu of Union City, Calif. Her father retired as a home-health care aide for the California Department of Social Services. Her mother is a caregiver in the residential program at Friends of Children with Special Needs, a social services organization in Fremont, Calif.Mr. Barchick, 31, is a third-year medical student at Duke. From 2010-15, he served in the Marine Corps as an infantry officer, attaining the rank of captain, and deployed to both Afghanistan and Jordan. He also graduated, cum laude, from Harvard, though the couple didn’t meet until 2014 when they struck up a conversation after a Harvard alumni event in Los Angeles.He is a son of David R. Barchick of Sylvania, Ohio, and the late Kathleen A. Barchick. The groom’s father retired as the vice president for human resources, in Toledo, Ohio, at Pilkington North America, a commercial glass manufacturer. The groom’s mother retired as a pharmacist at Riverside Hospital, which was in Toledo.Lauren Elise Katzberg and Dr. Noah Michael Einstein were married April 28 at Jennifer’s Gardens, an events space in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Debra Robbins officiated.The bride, 32, is a founder and the chief executive of Stylisted, a Chicago-based technology company that helps beauty professionals source and manage their freelance businesses. She graduated magna cum laude from Cornell and received an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago.She is the daughter of Leslie Amster Katzberg and Robert F. Katzberg of Manhattan Beach, Calif. The bride’s father is a lawyer in Manhattan Beach. Her mother retired after selling L. S. Amster Company, a party-planning business she owned in Scarsdale, N.Y.The groom, 33, is an emergency medicine resident at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Chicago. He graduated from Colorado State University and received a medical degree from the University of Texas at San Antonio.He is the son of J. Keith Einstein of Dallas and the late Judy Kaplan-Einstein. The groom’s father owns a printing and design company in Carrolton, Tex., that bears his name. His mother served as a social worker and librarian at Children’s Medical Center Dallas.The couple were introduced in 2015 by a mutual friend in Chicago.Jessica Willow Killin and Rajeev Date were married April 28 in the Riviera Maya of Mexico. Luz Hernández, a civil registry judge, officiated, with assistance from Paula Riquelme, who acted as a translator during the ceremony, at Rosewood Mayakoba, a resort.Later that day, the couple had a celebration in which the bride’s parents led an exchange of vows and rings, and the groom’s parents led the Hindu portion of the ceremony, which included the tying of the mangalsutra necklace.The bride, 44, is a financial services policy expert and government relations specialist in Washington. She was until last year the lead Democratic lobbyist for USAA, a financial services group of companies based in San Antonio that provide military members and their families with insurance, banking and investment services. She also served in the Army, completing five years of active duty in Mannheim, Germany, with the rank of captain. She graduated from the University of Tampa and received a law degree from Georgetown.The bride is a daughter of Terry E. Killin of Castle Rock, Colo., and a stepdaughter of Elizabeth A. Barnes. The bride’s father retired as the director of schools for the Douglas County School system in Castle Rock. Her stepmother retired as a teacher at Meadow Point Elementary School in Aurora, Colo.The groom, 47, is the managing partner of Fenway Summer, a hybrid advisory and venture investment firm in Bethesda, Md. He previously served as deputy director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in Washington. He graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, and received a law degree from Harvard.The groom is a son of Dr. Usha V. Date and Dr. Vishvanath V. Date of Anaheim, Calif. The groom’s mother retired as a general practitioner in Anaheim. His father, a pulmonary specialist, retired as the chief of staff of the Mike O’Callaghan Military Medical Center at Nellis Air Force Base in Nevada.The bride’s first marriage ended in divorce, as did the groom’s.The couple met in March 2015 at a bank regulatory conference held by the law firm Covington & Burling in Washington.Kristen Anastasia Lappas and Russell Andrew Dinallo Jr. were married April 28 at the St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Church in North Wildwood, N.J. The Rev. Nicholas Rafael, a Greek Orthodox priest, performed the ceremony.The bride, 30, and the groom, 31, work in New York as feature producers at ESPN, where they met.The bride, who graduated from Boston College, is the daughter of Harriet Lappas and Steve Lappas of West Chester, Pa. The bride’s father, the former basketball coach at both Villanova and Manhattan College, is an analyst for CBS Sports in New York. Her mother is a 12th-grade academy leader, and an advanced-placement government teacher at Malvern Preparatory School in Malvern, Pa.The groom, who graduated from the University of Maryland, is the son of Susan Dinallo and Mr. Dinallo Sr. of Ashford, Conn. The groom’s mother owns Trumbull Recreation Supply, a business in Stafford Springs, Conn., that sells recreational equipment to national parks around the country. His father is a technician for Eversource Energy, an electric utility in Hartford.Judith Eugenie Graves and Maryellen Madden were married April 28 at Christ Church in Philadelphia. The Rev. Susan Richardson, an Episcopal priest, officiated.Ms. Graves (left), 72, retired as a systems analyst at Westat, a professional services company in Rockville, Md., that provides research services to governmental agencies and businesses. She previously worked as an economist for the World Bank in Washington. She graduated from Cornell and received both an M.B.A. in applied economics and a master’s degree in economics from the University of California, Berkeley.She is the daughter of the late Helen M. Graves and the late Wesley Graves, who lived in Rockville. Her father was head of the science department at Westbury High School in Westbury, N.Y. Her mother was a librarian in the Uniondale, N.Y., public school system.Ms. Madden, 70, graduated from the University of Denver and received a law degree with honors from Duke, when she was then Paul Madden. She returned to Duke Law School last fall as a guest lecturer on transgender history and is now counsel to the Philadelphia law firm Buchanan, Ingersoll & Rooney, where she practices commercial litigation.Her parents are the late Marguerite Madden and the late Paul Madden, who lived in Arlington, Tex. Her father was a typographer with a printing factory in Denison, Tex. Her mother served in the Women’s Army Corps in New Guinea during World War II.The couples’ previous marriages ended in divorce.The couple met in 2016 on Match.com.Jordan Elizabeth Myers and James Douglas McGinnis were married April 28 at Aldridge Gardens in Hoover, Ala. The Rev. Robert Mercer, a United Methodist minister, officiated.The bride and groom met at Harvard, where each received a law degree, he magna cum laude.Mrs. McGinnis, 31, is an investigative counsel in the Office of Inspector General’s whistle-blower protection unit, which is part of the Department of Homeland Security, in Washington. She graduated summa cum laude from the University of Georgia.She is a daughter of Eady A. Myers and Scott V. Myers of Hoover. The bride’s mother is a school-bus driver for the public schools of Hoover, and is a pianist at St. Mark United Methodist Church in Vestavia Hills, Ala. Her father retired as a mechanical engineer in Birmingham for the Southern Company, a gas and electric utility holding company.Mr. McGinnis, 30, is a senior counsel at the Securities and Exchange Commission in Washington. He graduated magna cum laude from the University of Notre Dame.He is a son of Dr. Lee Ann McGinnis and Dr. Barry D. McGinnis of Charlotte, N.C. The groom’s mother, an anesthesiologist, is a partner of Providence Anesthesia Associates, in Charlotte, and his father, a radiologist, is a partner of Charlotte Radiology, also in Charlotte.Though the bride and groom met and became friends in 2010, while both were in law school, they didn’t begin dating until 2013, after both had graduated.Lauren Louise Paris and James Daniel Jorgenson were married April 28 at 1 Hotel Brooklyn Bridge. Cantor Shira Ginsburg officiated.The bride, 33, is the senior public relations events director and department manager in Manhattan for KCD Worldwide, a fashion public relations, production and digital agency. She graduated from Ohio University.She is a daughter of Michelle L. Paris and David M. Paris of Moreland Hills, Ohio. The bride’s father is a lawyer and managing partner in Nurenberg, Paris, a law firm in Cleveland. Her mother is a judge in Cleveland for Bedford Municipal Court.The groom, who is 34 and known as Daniel, is the senior vice president and chief strategy officer for CareConnect Insurance, Northwell Health’s insurance subsidiary in East Hills, N.Y. He graduated from Trinity University in San Antonio.He is a son of Patty M. Jorgenson and J. David Jorgenson of Tulsa, Okla. The groom’s mother is a geography teacher at Carver Middle School in Tulsa. His father is a partner in Waller Jorgenson Warzynski, a law firm, also in Tulsa.The couple met through a mutual friend in New York in December 2011.Dr. Mythili Prabhu and Dr. Akhilesh Srinivas Pathipati were married April 28 at the Hayes Mansion, a resort in San Jose, Calif. Sathish Balasubramanian, a Hindu priest, officiated.The couple, both 26, met at Harvard, from which they graduated. They also both received medical degrees from Stanford, from which the groom also received an M.B.A.In June, the bride is to begin a residency in internal medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.She is the daughter of Gurpur Madhav Prabhu and Gitanjali Prabhu of Ames, Iowa. The bride’s father is a professor of computer science at Iowa State University in Ames. Her mother is the founder and owner of PHD Technologies, a company in Ames that provides consulting services to the food industry.In June, the groom is to start an ophthalmology residency at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston.He is a son of Narendra Pathipati and Sridevi Pathipati of Sacramento. The groom’s mother works in Sacramento as a senior consultant at CGI Insight, an information technology and business services firm based in Montreal. His father is the executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Boyd Group, an operator of collision repair centers based in Manitoba; he works out of the Winnipeg and Elmhurst, Ill., offices.Dr. Laura Regina Pucillo and Dr. Varun tej Gonuguntla were married April 28 at the Beach Club in Palm Beach, Fla. Elizabeth Maass, a retired judge of the 15th Judicial Circuit Court in West Palm Beach, Fla., officiated.The couple met in 2015 in medical school at St. George’s University in St. George, Grenada, from which they received medical degrees. In June, they will begin residencies at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, she in pediatrics and he in internal medicine.The bride, 28, graduated from Vassar College.She is a daughter of Deborah D. Pucillo and Michael J. Pucillo of Palm Beach. The bride’s father, who is retired, was a lawyer in private practice. Her mother, who is also retired, served as a Palm Beach County Court judge.The groom, 26, graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.He is the son of Kalavathy Gonuguntla and Hanumantha Rao of Cary, N.C. The groom’s mother was a science teacher at an elementary school in Badvel, India. His father is a software developer in the Cary office of Infosys, a company that provides technology services and consulting based in Bengaluru, India.Christina Legendre Ramelli and Winston Tseng were married April 28 at India House, an event space in New York. Nick Gorzkowski, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.The bride, 38, is the director of development for Grace Institute, a work force training program for unemployed and underemployed low-income women. She graduated from American University and received an M.B.A. from Florida International University.She is a daughter of Candy L. Ramelli and Donnee S. Ramelli of Rehoboth Beach, Del. The bride’s father retired as the president of the human resources division at General Motors in Detroit. He also served in the Navy from 1968-88. He was last stationed at Naval Air Systems Command in Arlington, Va., retiring with the rank of commander. The bride’s mother was an English and family life education teacher at T. C. Williams High School in Alexandria, Va.The groom, also 38, is a freelance graphic artist in New York. Three of his pieces, political in nature, are a part of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. He graduated from the University of California, Berkeley.He is a son of Chu-Ning and Jim Tseng of Redondo Beach, Calif. The groom’s mother retired as a software developer for Computax in Torrance, Calif. His father is a real estate developer in Redondo Beach.The couple met in 2010 through their officiant, Mr. Gorzkowski, a friend of the groom who had become roommates with the bride after answering an ad she had placed on Craigslist.Dora Maria Rivas and Jung Il Kim were married April 28. The Rev. Paul F. Conti, a nondenominational Christian minister, officiated at the Claremont Club and Spa in Berkeley, Calif.Mrs. Kim, 43, is a regional sales manager, in San Francisco, for the television and digital advertising subsidiary of Comcast, the cable company. She graduated from San Francisco State University.She is a daughter of Wendy M. Rivas and Herbert T. Rivas of Tracy, Calif. The bride’s father retired as a logistics specialist for the Ford Motor Company at the automobile parts warehouse that was then in Richmond, Calif.Mr. Kim, 44, is known as Jay. He is the chief financial officer of Bowers & Wilkins, an audio equipment company in Redwood City, Calif. He graduated magna cum laude and received an M.B.A. from Harvard.He is the son of Sae Young Kim and Kenneth S. Kim of Irvine, Calif. The groom’s father retired as a general contractor in Laguna Hills, Calif.The couple met in 2017 through a professional matchmaker. It was a first date for both of them through the service.Dr. Stephanie Alexia Rolin and Azi Paybarah were married April 28. Brian R. Short, a friend of the couple who was ordained by the American Marriage Ministries for this event, officiated at Anyone Comics, a bookstore in Brooklyn.Dr. Rolin, 33, is a fourth-year psychiatry resident at New York State Psychiatric Institute in Manhattan. She graduated from McGill University, and received a master’s degree in public health and a medical degree, with honors, from Dartmouth.She is a daughter of Anne-Marie Rolin and Jean-Claude Rolin of Houston. The bride’s father is the chief financial officer for the North American division of Axens, a French company that sells processes to make petroleum burn more cleanly. Her mother retired as a French teacher for the Montessori Corner preschool and elementary schools in Plainsboro, N.J., and West Windsor, N.J.Mr. Paybarah, 39, is a senior reporter in the New York bureau of Politico; he has been on sabbatical while completing a journalism fellowship at the University of Michigan. He graduated with honors from the University at Albany.He is a son of Myra Paybarah of Bayside, Queens, and of Ebrahim Paybarah of Tafton, Pa. The groom’s mother retired as an English teacher at Grover Cleveland High School in Ridgewood, Queens. His father retired as the general manager and chief operating officer of River House, an apartment building in Manhattan. The groom is a stepson of Javaher Chabavi.The couple met in 2016 through the dating app Bumble.Nikita Trehan Saxena and Aditya Sreemadhav Kalluri were married April 27 at the Sri Chinmaya Maruti Temple in Andover, Mass. Pandit Rajesh Hariharan, a Hindu priest, led the ceremony.Ms. Saxena, 26, is a fourth-year medical student at Boston University School of Medicine. In June she is to begin a pediatrics residency at the Boston Combined Residency Program at Boston Children’s Hospital and Boston Medical Center. She graduated summa cum laude with a degree in biomedical engineering from Tufts.She is a daughter of Amita T. Saxena and Neeraj Saxena and of Murray Hill, N.J. The bride’s father works in Murray Hill as a vice president for North and South America focusing on metals, glass and manufacturing industries at the Linde Group, a multinational chemical company in Munich. Her mother is a lead marketing manager focusing on video and internet products for AT&T in Los Angeles.Mr. Kalluri, also 26, is pursuing a medical degree and Ph.D. in biophysics at Harvard Medical School in Boston. He graduated with a degree in electrical engineering and computer science, as well as biology from M.I.T.He is a son of Manjula V. Kalluri and Sreeramesh Kalluri of Cleveland. His father is a research scientist in Cleveland at Ohio Aerospace Institute, an aerospace research contractor. The groom’s mother is an technology applications specialist in Cleveland for Nationwide Insurance.The couple met and became friends in 2010 while they were summer research interns across the hall from each other at NASA Glenn Research Center in Cleveland.Eleanor Elisabeth Seavey and Gregory Lewis Fortier are to be married April 29 at the Woodend Sanctuary, an events space owned by the Audubon Naturalist Society, in Chevy Chase, Md. Rabbi David Shneyer is to officiate.The couple, both 29, graduated from George Washington University, where they met, she cum laude and he magna cum laude.Ms. Seavey, who will be taking her husband’s name, also received an M.B.A. from Fordham University. She is the brand manager for the National Football League in New York.She is the daughter of Nina Gilden Seavey and Dr. Ormond A. Seavey of Takoma Park, Md. The bride’s father is a professor of English at George Washington. Her mother is a documentary filmmaker in Washington. She is also a research professor of history and media and public affairs, and serves as the director of the Documentary Center at George Washington University.Mr. Fortier works in New York as a screenwriter for television and film.He is a son of Deborah Fortier and Francis Fortier of New York. The groom’s father is the founder and artistic director of the Bar Harbor Music Festival in Bar Harbor, Me. The groom’s mother serves as the associate director of the festival; she is also a member of the piano faculty at the St. David’s School, a music school in New York.Advertisement