AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew R. ChowHank Azaria stars as a foul-mouthed baseball announcer on “Brockmire.” And Michelle Wolf stops by “Late Night With Seth Meyers.”BROCKMIRE 10 p.m. on IFC. There are inspirational, family-friendly baseball movies like “Angels in the Outfield” and “Field of Dreams” — and then there’s “Brockmire,” about an alcoholic announcer who ends up in the minor leagues after a caustic, profane on-air tirade. The show’s bawdiness and provincial scope didn’t stop it from having a successful first season with strong reviews and ratings; the show was subsequently renewed through Season 4. In this episode, the title character (played by Hank Azaria) goes on an epic bender with the wizened ballplayer Pedro Uribe (Hemky Madera).IRON CHEF GAUNTLET 9 p.m. on the Food Network. David LeFevre is the last chef standing on this competition show. But if he wants to be crowned Iron Chef, he has to cook his way through a three-round competition against experts who already possess the title: Alex Guarnaschelli, Stephanie Izard and Michael Symon. The judges Donatella Arpaia and Marcus Samuelsson decide whether Mr. LeFevre will leave or join their ranks.GALAXY QUEST (1999) 10:30 p.m. on IFC. Tim Allen went to infinity and beyond as the voice of Buzz Lightyear in “Toy Story.” He returned to space, albeit much more reluctantly, in this spoof of “Star Trek,” playing the washed-up lead actor of a sci-fi space show who is contacted by aliens who believe his adventures are real. Mr. Allen and his former crew, played by a cast that includes Sam Rockwell, Sigourney Weaver, Tony Shalhoub and Alan Rickman, find themselves in the middle of an actual intergalactic war. In his review in The New York Times, Lawrence Van Gelder wrote that the film “offers a few genuine laughs, moves swiftly, if not at warp speed, and is led by a talented cast.”LATE NIGHT WITH SETH MEYERS 12:37 p.m. on NBC. Michelle Wolf received a swift and vehement blowback to her performance at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner last month, in which she delightedly roasted Sarah Huckabee Sanders and other political figures. Ms. Wolf isn’t apologizing, though: “I wouldn’t change a single word,” she told Terry Gross on “Fresh Air.” “I’m very happy with what I said, and I’m glad I stuck to my guns.” On Wednesday she sits down with Seth Meyers, who knows a thing or two about angering Donald J. Trump at that event. The actor Zach Woods is the second guest, and the R&B singer Jessie Ware performs.JACK WHITEHALL: TRAINING DAYS on YouTube. Kevin Hart’s new YouTube series, “What the Fit,” has produced huge laughs by pushing celebrities into surprising fitness routines. Mr. Whitehall, a British comic, will attempt something similar with this show, in which he tries to pull soccer stars out of their comfort zones through absurd activities. He plays Bavarian bar games with the German forward Thomas Müller, turns the Welsh winger Gareth Bale into a waxwork and shoots a perfume ad with the Colombian striker Radamel Falcao.Advertisement