AdvertisementSupported byPoetryWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Luis Alberto UrreaBROWN Poems By Kevin Young Photographs by Melanie Dunea Illustrated. 161 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.Kevin Young’s necessary new book of witness creates a parade through time, and I love a parade. Especially one with such good music — the poems in “Brown” dance through bebop and into James Brown’s megafunk. Marching players include B. B. King and Ol’ Dirty Bastard. Sitting on that float decorated with bombed churches and flogged backs, baseball bats and basketballs, Fishbone records and railroad tracks, are Lead Belly and Howlin’ Wolf playing dusty blues for Big Pun. The parade is coming all night, blowing up dust in the crossroads, churning with music, mad for music, swearing “I Would Die 4 U,” grinning just a little so the initiated will feel the love burning like Jimi’s guitar at Monterey. Scrappy kids dive into public pools and hit line drives with broken bats. Every line of “Brown” is aware that this storm must scare the hell out of people who have locked their doors and kneel before Fox News Channel asking God what went wrong.Young’s book releases a universal shout — political in the best, most visceral way, critical, angry, squinting hard at this culture — while remaining at the same time deeply and lovingly personal. Love soars over every section, especially the most painful ones. Pain and joy. And baseball. And the delightful appearance of Ali’s “rope-a-dope” move in the ring. Yeah, Young knows that move and throws punches when you look the other way.We are not expected just to watch. Put on your comfortable shoes — we have a long way to walk. Those who dare to enter the parade will understand the thrill of it when John Brown returns from the dead to smite slavers and lynchers. Yes, brown. Brown. The color of the earth itself. That fearsome color that in all its beautiful shades reigns over much of our planet. That color that makes us cry, “Build the wall.” Makes us insist that “all lives matter” because those black lives … well. How inconvenient to be reminded we are all human beings. “When do you talk about it,” Young writes, the men—never one — who come for you, burning& cutting & crossing— even a pistolcan be made a whip—  just for you sayingwhat’s true.But the Harlem Globetrotters suddenly join us. In Young’s agile hands, they transform in shifting light from the clown princes of athletic humor into avatars of grace and a kind of satori: “Because on your finger / your knee, toes / & elbows the world can spin.” Meadowlark Lemon is beatified in a testimonial born of deep respect. “Because mercy, not pity.”Did I say this was a political screed? A radical’s blurt of invective? Forget it. The Rev. Kevin Young has opened the Book of Jubilees and the Book of Lamentations, and he is here to pray. No fool he — Young is currently poetry editor at The New Yorker and director of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. He is the author of 10 books of poetry and two books of nonfiction, and the editor of several anthologies. Harvard graduate. Finalist for the National Book Award. Winner of a Guggenheim. Professor. I believe I saw him beat Colson Whitehead in a poker game a few years ago. Record geek. I suspect he could add a further title to his résumé: trickster.I can tell he knows that in barrios like my old one, the kids boasted, “I’m down and brown.” Though they did not feel empowered in any way, their words made them taller and braver. Made them bold on mean streets and in barren dirt ball fields. “Ain’t no shame in my game,” their ghosts still shout. I don’t know how he knows this. It’s somewhere in his blood. He can hear them. He knows we used a long-dead cat for home base. Made believe we were Hank Aaron and hit a deflated soccer ball with a dinged wooden bat on the edge of a tidewater slough between a church and a slaughterhouse.In a fleet-footed baseball poem called “Stealing,” he says: In that game called pickle,or hotbox, I rarely  got caught. I ran like only the sly,four-eyed can — to get there  & to get away— to reach somewheresafe, where I  never thought to stay.The sly four-eyed poet knows there are precious few safe places. Knows that stealing sanctuary is what one gets in brown places. That one will not stay safe, because that is not possible. And the reader of course knows we’re not talking just about baseball.That being said, I always thought B. H. Fairchild wrote the best baseball poems. But Young is opening a book that has no time for batting heroics or fulsome electrically lit baseball diamonds in approaching night. It’s not just baseball either. The field grows crowded with Muhammad Ali, and an unlikely poetic hero in the swirl, Arthur Ashe. Joyous in its particulars, the collection knows a harrowing is coming. Trayvon Martin watches in the deep shadows, and Young is calling us to see him in “Triptych for Trayvon Martin”:Because maybe  Because we mustsay your names  & the list grows longer & more endless  I am writing this.The above is dedicated to Sandra Bland. Lest we forget: She was a 28-year-old African-American woman found hanged in her cell in Texas after being arrested during a traffic stop. Soon, the almost unbearable beauty and sorrow of “Whistle,” which among other things reads as a prayerful lament for Emmett Till, arrives.Don’t be afraid. Listen to the records. Even Robert Plant and Jim Carroll have come to play. Sinead O’Connor is shyly in a corner. Oh Lord, Jethro Tull has been invited. It’s a parade for all of us. Kevin Young loves you. That’s why he sometimes gives you a kick. It’s a rage that protects the most delicate observer’s heart.Witness these last lines of the book. I actually held my breath for a moment and just let the stillness of these words do what had to be done after this immense journey. The poem is called “Hive.” In it, a boy tries to rescue bees in his bare hands. Believing he can do it. Not unlike the poet himself, I suspect. A blessing. A forgiveness. These lines, then:Let him be right.  Let the gods look away as always. Let this boywho carries the entire  actual, whirring world in his calmunwashed hands,  barely walking, bear us all therebuzzing, unstung.Luis Alberto Urrea has written eight novels and five books of nonfiction in addition to his three poetry collections. His novel “The House of Broken Angels” was published in March.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement