AdvertisementSupported byWordplayBy Deb AmlenMONDAY PUZZLE — I’m not sure what this says about me, but one of the things that I appreciate most in crossword puzzles is a secretly subversive theme.It’s not clear if that was Bruce Haight’s intention, but it solved that way for me and made me laugh. You’ll see why when we talk about the theme.The vast majority of the clues were very straightforward, this being Monday, but I thought I’d help some of our younger solvers with 44D.Hi, kids! “The Dick Van Dyke Show” was a hit network (ask your folks) television show that ran from 1961 to 1966 on CBS. Dick Van Dyke (please tell me your parents sat you down and made you watch “Mary Poppins”; he was Bert, the chimney sweep) starred as Rob Petrie, a fictional television writer on the fictional “Alan Brady Show.” As an aside, Alan Brady was played by the comedian Carl Reiner, who created the show, and has also been a guest blogger here. Mary Tyler Moore (please tell me you know who she is) co-starred as Petrie’s TV WIFE, Laura, and was in charge of dangerous ottoman placement:Listen, it’s no secret that there are a lot of men making and editing our puzzles. As members of the estrogen-festooned half of our species, I and others of my ilk sometimes get tired of seeing the entries BRA and A, B or C CUPs in our puzzles, with no balance in terms of men’s undergarment entries. We have never seen the entry JOCK, for example, clued as an undergarment, although JOCKSTRAP was used once — and only once — back in 2010.So I had to suppress an evil giggle when I solved Mr. Haight’s puzzle, because it is basically a goofy foray into the world of men’s underwear. Of course, both men and women can wear these items, but given that the constructor is a man, I read it as men’s garments. And while it’s only one puzzle, it felt good to see that. So to speak.Oh right, the theme. Mr. Haight offers us a set of five two-word phrases that have absolutely nothing to do with underwear when Mr. Haight isn’t dealing with them, and cluing them punnily.For example, the clue “Underwear for judges?” hints at LEGAL BRIEFS. Similarly, “Underwear for Frisbee enthusiasts?” hints at DISC JOCKEYS.I remember driving down the freeway a year ago and hearing someone on the radio use JOCKEYS as a synonym for underwear. I think some basketball player got faked out of his or her Jockeys.This was news to me, and it got me thinking that there are quite a few underwear synonyms with wordplay potential. I remember my dad being excited right away that I had an underwear puzzle accepted by The New York Times. Mom, on the other hand, had a few questions. …My puzzle from Jan. 3, 2018, had the phrase RIDE UP, which has multiple possible meanings but ended up being clued as “What underwear may do, annoyingly.” I’m thinking skivvy humor may be underappreciated, and I hope solvers have some fun with this.Almost finished solving but just need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but now you can take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the crossword puzzles require a subscription.Your thoughts?Advertisement