AdvertisementSupported byContestsBy Katherine SchultenThe Learning Network runs challenges for teenagers all year long, but when we announce a new one, it’s always with trepidation. Will it be too hard? Have we been clear enough about what we’re looking for? Will anyone out there actually take the time to do it?Well, in the case of the challenge we announced in December — to connect something you’re studying in school with the world today — we needn’t have worried. Over 1,200 students suggested interesting thematic links between recent Times articles and literary, historical and scientific texts and topics like “Their Eyes Were Watching God,” “Walden,” the Chinese Exclusion Act, the Chandrasekhar Limit and the California gold rush.Some texts came up so often that, if you’re a teacher currently working with any of them, you could do worse than to search this post to find the many and varied ways students see their resonance. “Brave New World,” “Fahrenheit 451,” “The Prince,” “1984,” "Othello” and “Macbeth” are in that category.Certain issues in the news also appeared in all kinds of contexts. The #MeToo movement reminded students of literature like “Jane Eyre” and “The Handmaid’s Tale,” but one student also thought Newton’s first two laws of motion applied, while another saw an analogy to the rock cycle in geology. Participants discovered that fake news is old news, with clear parallels in the plots of “The Crucible” and “The Great Gatsby.” President Trump was compared to literary characters including Macbeth and Grendel, and his policies were invoked in examining topics as varied as “The Scarlet Letter” and the Indian Removal Act.Below, in alphabetical order, is a list of winners, runners-up and honorable mentions, including full essays by our top eight winners. All told, the list represents the work of 50 students, more than we usually call out in our contests. But not only were there simply that many ideas we wanted to honor, we also think the variety and originality of the choices speak for themselves: Any future student who wonders what school-assigned reading has to do with “the real world” only has to look at this list to see how easy it is to answer that question.Zoe Georgulas, 17, New Tech High @ Coppell: “Fahrenheit 451” by Ray Bradbury and “Thought Control, Trump-Style”Is it really possible to control how people think? Today we are inundated with media from the moment we wake up: images, text messages, news stories. In school, students read articles, novels, and textbooks. If we took all of these stimulants away, would we still be able to think for ourselves, or would we lose the motivation to do so?This theme is one at the forefront of Ray Bradbury’s novel, “Fahrenheit 451,” which I recently read for my Literature class. The story examines a dystopian society where books have been banned completely. The average people in this story seem to lack emotional complexity; they have no desire to read because they have been taught that books made people upset. In the novel, there are a few people who question the status quo, but the majority of people live in a state of blissful ignorance.Though the novel is meant to depict a contemporary society that Bradbury could not have predicted, there are elements of its narrative that are uncannily similar to our world. Specifically, the mindset of our leaders. Following the mandate from the president disallowing the use of seven scientific words by the CDC in budget documents, I read an article in the New York Times called “Thought Control, Trump-Style” published on December 18, 2017. The Trump administration has almost completely erased any trace of the LGBT+ community on government websites and banned the phrase “climate change” from use by the Department of Agriculture. This virus has infected so many establishments that its ban on seven words in budget documents pales in comparison.Why are our leaders seeking to control the media we consume? Even the controversy of “fake news” is an attempt to restrict the press we see to only one side of the story. Our government has become a Mind Flayer of sorts: it sees itself as a superior race of thinkers and feels a need to dominate other beings to the point of mind control. This evil and fantastical government is what Ray Bradbury was trying to warn against in his novel. Complacency only breeds complacency. Congress will surely be more effective in passing legislation that Republicans are in favor of if the only news consumed by the American public leans to the far right, but what good does it do us as a society to all agree?American democracy is predicated on freedom of speech and the desire to seek knowledge. The very idea of precluding this information is a threat to our republic. It is scary to think that Bradbury saw signs of today’s society almost seventy years ago. Perhaps even scarier is how many people in today’s society have failed to become Guy Montags. It would be difficult to find someone who does not agree with the dangers presented in this book, but, unfortunately, it is not hard to find someone who agrees with the thought control of America’s own Mind Flayer.If complacency breeds complacency, will deliberate minds produce deliberate actions?Samantha Jones, 16, Concord Carlisle Regional High School: “Walden” and “Dropping Out of College Into Life”It is fairly well known that Henry David Thoreau ventured off into Walden Woods to live in solidarity for two years. The purpose of this endeavor was not only to rid himself of society’s frivolities but to see what the woods could teach him. Thoreau’s philosophy on education was a central theme to his books, and details that learning through experience is far more beneficial than in a classroom. This belief parallels in Rainesford Stauffer’s “Dropping Out of College Into Life,” which accounts for her decision to leave college and why it was crucial to her education. In the article Stauffer explains school does not prepare students for failure, and instead teaches them to avoid it at all costs. From this, students develop a complex fear of failure early on in their academic careers.Stauffer’s story begins her freshman year of college, when she remembers this paralyzing fear. She recalls going from a confident student; optimistic about the year, to a terrified, voiceless wreck. Her high school education had prepared her for the coursework but not the reality her actions impacted her future, and could possibly mean failure. Stauffer became so petrified that she stopped eating and participating in classes, dropped courses, lost weight, and eventually dropped out of college altogether. She’d failed, and her worst fear had become a reality.Yet, somehow this wasn’t as crushing as she thought it would be. Stauffer moved home, and inadvertently started seeking out education the same way Thoreau did: through experience. She found that the hands on experience of ballet and yoga studios and a nonprofit organization furthered her education more than any college course ever could. Eventually Stauffer found a way to finish her degree at the New School, a collection of universities that offered credit for real-life experience instead of academic courses. She went from the lowest point in her life to one of the highest, and all she had to do was fail.The moral is clear: there are gaps in our education system, and because of these gaps students aren’t adequately prepared for their own futures. In his book Walden, Thoreau elaborates on the ideas Stauffer touches on in her article. As stated before, he believed learning through experience was exponentially better than a in classroom. When a rigid curriculum with expectations is set in place, students aren’t given the same hands on learning as they would be without one. Just as Stauffer embraced this learning style in the New School, Thoreau did so in Walden Woods. For that is all Walden really is; Thoreau learning from nature by immersing himself in it, instead of seeing it on the pages of a book. A quote from Walden most fitting is as follows, “We boast of our system of education, but why stop at schoolmasters and schoolhouses? We are all schoolmasters, and our schoolhouse is the universe” (Walden 10/15/1859.)Lily Langrind, 17, Concord Carlisle High School: “White Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack” by Peggy McIntosh and “Checking My Male Privilege”Most of the literature I have explored in my English classes have been novels and plays with sophisticated language and complex storylines, but this semester we read an eye-opening essay about racism– “White Privilege: Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack” by Peggy McIntosh–which finally made me realize that what my teachers say is true: the things we read and discuss do apply to the real world.I read Charles Blow’s editorials regularly. The effect of his words is sharp and impactful. When I came across “Checking My Male Privilege” after the deluge of sexual harassment accusations came out in Hollywood and Washington, the connection was obvious.In “Unpacking the Invisible Knapsack,” McIntosh emphasizes how in our society, white privilege is so lethal because its beneficiaries are “carefully taught not to recognize [it].” How can racism be eradicated if the people with advantages don’t even know they have them? Unless white people recognize all the ways our quality of life can be so much higher simply because of the color of our skin, we will forever have this invisible pack full of assets and protections secured tightly on our backs.If we apply the same logic McIntosh uses in her essay to our discussions about sexual harassment in America, it’s easy to see that most men are also conditioned to evade any blame whatsoever for the injustices so many women face. Just like the white people who attribute their success to their own merit and turn a blind eye to their privileges, the men who focus on the “good guys” who don’t grope or whistle or slap are choosing to overlook the privilege of physical dominance. It seems simple, but men can enjoy the luxury of knowing that a vast majority of the time, women don’t have the physical superiority to victimize or overpower men for unwanted sexual behavior.In cases of both sexism and racism, privileges hurt both those without and with the privileges. White people might not condone racism, but their blindness to privilege leads them to believe that racism may not be as bad as the underprivileged make it seem. As Blow writes, it’s extremely difficult to understand how bad something is if you never experience it firsthand, and so listening to people with fewer privileges is one of the best tools we can use to evaluate the state of discrimination black people and women are immersed in.Alicia Li, 16, Livingston High School: “The Great Gatsby” by F. Scott Fitzgerald and “Will America Choose King’s Dream or Trump’s Nightmare?”Beneath the shimmery surface of American ideals, from John Winthrop’s iconic imagery of the country as a “city upon a hill” to the twentieth century metaphor of a “melting pot” accepting all cultures, nationalities, and ethnicities, recent events reveal the underlying racism of a nation claiming to be “post-racial.” In George Yancy’s “Will America Choose King’s Dream or Trump’s Nightmare?” the professor illustrates how Trump’s offensive and racist statements pertaining to Haiti, El Salvador, and African nations highlight America’s deceptive façade as a beacon for civil liberty. A classic piece of American literature, The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald unveils the flaws of high society during the Roaring Twenties, a period of both economic prosperity and unrivaled income inequality, through the narration of Nick Carraway. Reflecting current news, “The Great Gatsby” showcases how harsh reality is often hidden under a superficial exterior.After moving to Long Island, Carraway optimistically believes in the American dream of working hard to be rewarded and achieve upward mobility. However, his encounters reveal the faults of the rich whose lifestyles and wealth are so widely admired. Tom Buchanan, a Yale graduate from a prominent family, has more than enough wealth to transport his polo ponies across the country while owning an elaborate mansion framed by French windows and half an acre of fresh roses. Despite Buchanan’s dignified appearance and prestige, Carraway uncovers the truth of his racism, domestic violence, and immorality. At his own dinner party, Buchanan recommends a book claiming the importance of the dominance of the white race. That same night, a woman reveals his infidelity and the fact that everyone in town is aware of it. Not only is the man unabashedly unfaithful, but he frequently leaves bruises on his wife and breaks his mistress’s nose during a disagreement. Meanwhile, the vanity of his wife and mistress is undeniable since Buchanan’s exuberant wealth was the subject of their attraction. The sole genuinely magnanimous rich character, Jay Gatsby, is delusional and dependent on illegal means to maintain his lavish lifestyle.Although written nearly a century later, Yancy’s op-ed examines the same theme of reality contradicting American ideals. Ever since the Declaration of Independence affirmed equality for all men and the United States emerged as the land of liberty, the nation claimed to be a republic of moral justice and equality. Yet on January 11, President Donald J. Trump revealed the contradictory truth when he made a racist and derogatory statement condemning immigrants from several nonwhite countries. The representative of the United States allegedly using “shithole” to describe the homelands of foreign immigrants is contemptuous and clearly inconsistent with America’s image of acceptance and tolerance.In “The Great Gatsby,” Fitzgerald warns readers against accepting society at face value, a lesson that Yancy emphasizes as well. To learn from the misplaced optimism of Nick Carraway, Americans today must remain unaffected by the country’s idealistic rhetoric of freedom and equality to speak out against our president’s bigotry, rather than silently accepting the unjust reality of racism.Katherine LoBue, 16, Mamaroneck High School: “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn” by Mark Twain and “The Other Inconvenient Truth”Mark Twain was friends with abolitionist Frederick Douglass, yet he permitted grotesque drawings of escaped slave Jim in “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.” Twain was a benefactor for African American students, yet he depicted Jim as helpless and inferior in the “anti-slavery” satire. Twain clearly had conflicting views regarding African Americans. In his New York Times op-ed, “The Other Inconvenient Truth,” author Charles Blow states, “Just because one abhors violence and cruelty doesn’t mean that one truly believes that all people are equal… Entertaining the notion of imbalance-that white people are inherently better than others in any way- is also white supremacy.” Blow invents the term “soft white supremacy” to describe these beliefs. This concept offered me a way to navigate Twain’s puzzling attitudes towards African Americans in Huck Finn.When reading Twain’s classic with my AP English class, I was confused as to why the text wasn’t resolutely anti-slavery. In the novel, protagonist Huck and Jim travel down the Mississippi to escape their lives in St. Petersburg, Missouri. It takes over 300 pages for Huck to realize Jim is a human being, and even then Huck infantilizes Jim by offering the grown man “help.” In the book’s last ten controversial chapters, Jim becomes subservient to Huck and Tom, refusing to stand up for himself even when made to complete ridiculous tasks. Jim’s behavior in these chapters led me to suspect Twain believed slaves were too unintelligent and submissive to stand up to adolescents. Although Twain depicted Jim as a true human being, giving this book its “anti-slavery” reputation, subtleties in Huck’s and Jim’s attitudes make me wonder if Twain “entertained notions of imbalance” even though he didn’t openly show it.Most importantly, Blow showed me that “soft white supremacy” still plagues our current times, most notably in the executive branch of our government. In 2011, Trump said President Obama needed to show his birth certificate to prove he was American-born. When announcing his Presidential candidacy, Trump stated Mexicans were drug dealers, criminals, and rapists. Trump said of the white supremacist demonstrations in Charlottesville that violence had taken place “on many sides.” No, he didn’t openly support the supremacists, but yes, he didn’t really condemn them either. Recently, Trump called Elizabeth Warren “Pocahontas,” actively belittling her and Native Americans simultaneously.I had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Blow speak on January 7th and his words continued to enlighten my understanding of white supremacy. Passive white supremacy, he said, is more deadly than open white supremacy because these feelings can increase exponentially when sparked. Those who turn a blind eye to hateful events are the ones who allow extremism to grow.I was disappointed that in the end of Twain’s novel, Huck knows his Southern society has the wrong views about slavery yet he decides to turn his own blind eye. Huck’s choice to escape to the West and ignore these issues on the final page is symbolic of the actions many in our country take today.Ayden Nichol, 17, Concord-Carlisle Regional High School: “The Merchant of Venice” and “Louisiana’s Big Step on Justice Reform”It can be a terrifying thing to see decades of the pent-up rage of an oppressed person finally let out against their oppressor. This is the case in William Shakespeare’s “The Merchant of Venice,” when the Jewish moneylender Shylock brings his nemesis and lifelong tormentor, the Christian merchant Antonio, to court over an unpaid loan. The punishment, as agreed upon between the two men as a condition of the deal, is that Shylock may remove a pound of Antonio’s flesh. But before Shylock exacts this cruel retribution, a friend of Antonio’s makes a fascinating appeal in his favor. Portia claims that the true sign of strength is not the ability to take revenge, but to show mercy. Mercy, she says, “blesseth him that gives, and him that takes … ‘tis mightiest in the mightiest” (Shakespeare IV.i.183-84). In June of 2017, half a millennium after Shakespeare’s fictional court case, the Louisiana state legislature seemed to realize the same thing as Portia when they passed a series of unexpected but widespread criminal justice reform laws which aim to dramatically reduce the prison population and lower recidivism rates. Both instances show that the ability to have mercy gives the person in power an unparalleled opportunity to do good, and ultimately, to benefit themselves.At its surface, the Louisiana reform package could appear purely as an act of mercy: an attempt to help those who have fallen victim to the state’s brutal justice system. On some level, this is all it is; surely there were legislators for whom this was their sole motivation. But whether intended or not, Louisiana stands to receive enormous gains from this package – it truly is “twice blest.” As well as expanded parole and prison alternatives, which aim to help those convicted, the state expects to see an improvement in public safety and save over $180 million. The monetary benefits from this merciful outreach will help the state in ways that would never be thought of as connected to improving an inmate’s life.However, conservative politicians, such as Attorney General Jeff Sessions, fail to see this link. They maintain that the best way to keep law and order among their constituents is to wield their power like a sword, striking down any who violate that peace. But Portia reminds us that mercy is what makes a ruler truly powerful; she calls it “an attribute to God himself” (Shakespeare IV.i.190). Sessions and others must reject this easy show of power by way of force and cruelty in the justice system, choosing instead a path that will benefit disadvantaged citizens and show the people that they are worthy of the power we grant them. In this time of political distrust, the American people could use an indication that our politicians are capable of the “awe and majesty” that Portia speaks of (Shakespeare IV.i.186). I am certain that if they chose to show mercy, we would know beyond a doubt that they are worthy of leading us.Isabella Picillo, 17, Oceanside High School: “The Scarlet Letter” and “Judge Partially Lifts Trump Administration Ban on Refugees”I stumble upon a New York Times article, “Judge Partially Lifts Trump Administration Ban on Refugees,” that makes me wonder if Hawthorne, the literary genius, is wrong.The article explains a recent case in which a judge, James Robart, lifted a Trump administration ban after hearing a compelling argument that Muslim refugees struggle to reunite with family members who have already legally settled in the U.S. due to discriminatory policies of the U.S. refugee program. Governmental lawyers counter-argued that the ban was necessary because it was in interests of national security.I sit at the breakfast table wondering if xenophobia was always that pronounced in the United States. It appears to me that xenophobia underlined the governmental lawyers’ arguments; an attorney called the ban “reasonable and appropriate.” I do not understand how a ban that targets certain groups, specifically Muslims, can be “reasonable.” I ask my father, who grew up in an Italian immigrant household if he recalls facing immense oppression. He says no. I often hear people casually declaring that Muslims should not be allowed in the U.S. because they will bomb our cities. When did Muslim refugees become synonymous with terrorism? The answer: recently. How may you ask? The death of our shadows.Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “The Scarlet Letter” explores the concept of the shadow-self. The character Pearl is praised because she possesses no shadow. Hawthorne suggested that our world would be a better place if we did not have shadows, meaning our dark parts would be exposed to society. We live in Hawthorne’s world, and it is not one of sublime beauty, rather it is one of chaos and disgust.With recent changes in administration, more people have become comfortable vocalizing xenophobic, along with homophobic, racist, and sexist, thoughts. It has become more common to witness politicians share their dark, most discriminatory, comments to gain support. Those thoughts are normalized, causing the death of our shadows.Shadows barricade impertinent comments and prevent xenophobia from manifesting itself into discriminatory policies like the ban seen in the New York Times article. Although Judge James Robart partially lifted the ban, part of it still exists, along with other similar policies. He’s combating xenophobia, while others do little to eradicate discriminatory policies. By doing nothing, a shadow-less world exists. Perhaps if we had shadows, a ban would not exist to prevent Muslim families from reuniting. A Muslim father can watch his daughter blow out the candles on her birthday cake, and a Muslim mother can applaud when her son receives his high school diploma. But they can’t.Hawthorne is wrong. His envisioned world has its perils. It allows xenophobia to persist, causing the unjust discrimination of certain groups like the Muslim refugees mentioned in the article “Judge Partially Lifts Trump Administration Ban on Refugees.” We can live again in Hawthorne’s imperfect world, where shadows exist, even finding it to be not so imperfect. A shadow can only exist with light; there is no light in a shadow-less world.Sayali Shelke, 19, Texas A&M University: Stereotype threat and “Careers for Women in Technology Companies Are a Global Challenge”In the New York Times article, “Careers for Women in Technology Companies Are A Global Challenge,” writer Alina Tugend discusses the similarities and differences for women around the world working in the tech field. Tech companies in the United States suffer from a male-dominated, “bro” culture that gives a cold shoulder to female coworkers. In other places, such as the United Kingdom or the Netherlands, the problem lies with class differences, leading to the alienation of middle-class and poor women. The article sums that, while the execution of these issues vary around the world, the underlying effect is still the same: women have a much harder time entering and remaining in the tech field.The lack of female representation in STEM is not new. While there are many factors that lead to this problem, the one with the deepest consequence is negative stereotypes planted at a young age.In psychology, we learned about the idea of stereotype threat: a phenomenon in which people are reminded of negative stereotypes of a group they belong to and hence perform on given tasks conforming to those stereotypes. In 1997, researcher Steven Spencer applied this idea to classrooms and discovered that equally intelligent women performed worse on a math exam than their male counterparts after being told that the test showed gender differences. This characterization evoked the negative stereotype of women’s lack of math skills and led them to under-perform on the exam. In contrast, he found that if, before the test, participants were led to believe that both parties performed equally, women’s scores were similar to the men’s. Additional research post Spencer’s experiment has further supported this idea, proving that negative stereotypes in gender as well as race and ethnicity reduces the performance of individuals.This institutionalized idea that women are not as capable of performing mathematical or technical tasks as well as men is deeply rooted in our culture, starting in elementary schools all the way to professional work settings. Learning about stereotype threat was eye-opening because it allowed me to see the deeper effects of the way we teach children about careers and how it differs in males and females. Dr. Spencer’s experiment involved one math exam; however, the negative stereotypes about women’s lack of technical skills are prevalent universally. The most corrosive part of this narrative is that men are lead to believe these same ideas, so in the future they are equally as unwelcoming of women, a disheartening reality reflected in our companies today.It is vital that we start debasing these myths and start encouraging women from young ages to be open about any career. Most importantly, we need to teach both men and women such values, so that men can also live in a world where the idea of women being empowered to work in any field is a standard, a world in which creativity and innovation need no gender classification.Update, Feb. 27: Several readers have asked to learn more about the connections students made, so we’ve added a short excerpt from the work of each runner-up._________ Andrea B., 17, St. Ignatius College Prep: “Beowulf” and “‘Wonder Woman’ Could Be the Superhero Women in Hollywood Need”Whether heroes take the form of a mighty Anglo-Saxon warrior or a fierce Amazonian princess, the people who rise up to lead us out of the shadows of death are cultivated by the trials they face and the hope for a brighter future that we project upon them which are often rooted in the injustices we experience.Sofie Brutsaert, 15, Jamesville-DeWitt High School: The Stanford Prison Experiment and “ESPN Fires Donovan McNabb and Eric Davis After Lawsuit”A lot can be learned from the prisoners in the Stanford Prison Experiment. Despite the fact that they were innocent, not actual prisoners deserving of punishment, as the simulation progressed they increasingly accepted their abuse without protest. Of course while there are many factors contributing to the silence of sexual assault victims (social pressure, and the fear of losing their jobs among them), it is also true that many of these factors stem from the victim’s powerless role, which is similar to the silence of the prisoners in Zimbardo’s experiment. While the issue of sexual misconduct is complex and it is impossible to pinpoint any one cause, the findings of the SPE shed a startling light on the effect power has on both the victims and perpetrators of such a widespread epidemic.Sharanya Datta, 14, Biotechnology High School: “The Crucible” by Arthur Miller and “‘Fake News’: Wide Reach but Little Impact, Study Suggests”In the world we live in, fake news is becoming a threat to credibility. With the assistance of the Internet, no one can be completely sure what they are reading is accurate...During the Salem Witch trials in which The Crucible took place, news of witchcraft had spread like ivy. Accusations against Goody Proctor and Rebecca Nurse were the talk of the town not only in Salem, but also in neighboring towns. However, in the 1600’s, people were not very educated and did not have much sense of the world; the majority of the townspeople of Salem and the neighboring towns believed everything they heard about witchcraft.Ian Derushia, 15, Hoggard High School: Genghis Khan and “What Experts Know About Men Who Rape”Over the course of recent weeks, my AP World class has been conducting a mock trial to try Genghis Khan for being an uncivilized tyrant... As I did more research, not only for the trial but for a more personal understanding, I came across a New York Times article titled “What Experts Know About Men Who Rape” which went on to describe a study that took place to understand the science and psychology behind men that raped...Much like Genghis Khan, these men wanted power, especially if their sexual offenses were violent or aggressive. I believe that Genghis Khan was on a power trip and violated these poor innocent women to demean their societies and to show that he had enough power to do so.Kendall Dunn, 18, New Tech High @ Coppell: “Brave New World” by Aldous Huxley and “My Year of No Shopping”In the day and age of wealth, where consumerism is ubiquitous, it’s become acceptable to compulsively fill desires through material gains, such as new clothes or electronics. After all, if we have the capability to harmlessly buy whatever we desire, then what’s wrong with instant satisfaction?The problem is that we constantly reward ourselves, which in turn causes us to feel less grateful for items we receive. Just like the inhabitants of Aldous Huxley’s Brave New World, we seek products to provide short bursts of satisfaction and often ignore more wholesome alternatives. Similar to the imaginary civilians in Brave New World, we are surrounded by consumables that are marketed for being quick: Amazon Prime, faster internet, minute-microwave rice, etc. Even subpar TV dinner can seem more attractive than a home cooked meal because of its immediate nature. However, better things come to those who wait.Jackson Edwards, Wesley Gow, Jack Trent, Jaya Krishnan, 17, St. John’s School: “Invisible Man” and “A Rebel, a Warrior and a Race Fiend”Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison’s bildungsroman centered around an unnamed black protagonist (written to be symbolic of any black man), should not be relevant today. Ideally, Invisible Man should serve as a dated reminder of America’s dark racial history; unfortunately, its underlying themes remain just as prevalent in today’s world as they were when Ellison first released the novel 66 years ago. Charles M. Blow’s Op-Ed “A Rebel, a Warrior and a Race Fiend” particularly highlights the similarities between the nameless protagonist’s struggles and the deeply-embedded racism that still plagues modern America. Blow uses the racially-charged language of President Donald Trump towards black professional athletes to make a broader point about the “racial inequities fused to the DNA of power in this country.” The similarities drawn between Ellison’s work, written in an overtly racist America, and Blow’s contemporary opinion piece convey a depressing message regarding the glacial rate of social progress.Sera Eviner, 16, Oceanside High School: Newton’s Laws and “The #MeToo Moment: No Longer Complicit”Why is this [#MeToo] happening now? Why are all of these women all of a sudden sharing their stories? These questions seem to puzzle many, yet there is a simple answer: Newton’s first two laws of motion can easily explain the growth of the #MeToo movement. Newton’s first law states that an object at rest will remain at rest and an object in motion will remain in motion unless acted upon by an unbalanced force...While the initial force is debatable - whether it be President Trump’s locker room talk, the growing women’s rights movement, or simply women banding together against Harvey Weinstein - it is evident that a strong force had pushed this moment into action. The once silenced women now gained courage and support to speak up; this cause which was once at rest, is now in motion and will remain in motion.Shane George, 15, New Milford High School: “Othello” by William Shakespeare and “Harvey Weinstein Expelled From Television Academy Over Abuse Claims”The unequal power dynamic that can exist between the oftentime male offender and female victim in these situations has been a pattern that has existed for generations, going as far back as Shakespearean times. This discussion of male power exerted over women plays out in Othello as we watch high-ranking, socially-influential men manipulate this power dynamic in their favor. As we see the mistakes of Venetian society, we remember our own as well.Jeong-In Ha, 16, Bergen County Academies: “Troilus and Cressida” by William Shakespeare and “Japan Balks at Calls for New Apology to South Korea Over ‘Comfort Women’”My junior year lit class focused on Shakespeare’s Troilus and Cressida and the explicit objectification of women present throughout the play. The romance between idealistic Troilus and rational Cressida abruptly ends when Cressida is sold off forcefully to the enemy troop. In the fourth act however, the Greek soldiers welcome Cressida to the camp by doting her with compliments and kisses. The soldiers refer to her as “my fair lady” and “sweet lady”, neglecting the fact that they had ripped her out of her home and relationship against her will. This polite diction makes readers believe that Cressida is enjoying her time at the Greek camp, and we oversee the emotional torture she was forced to endure.Similar to Shakespeare’s play, the reference to the sex slaves as “comfort women” and “halmonies” impose a positive connotation on a subject that dare not be taken lightly, as we sometimes come to disregard the injustices these women endured.Betsy Jenifer, 18, Women’s Christian College: “Doctor Faustus” by Christopher Marlowe and “You’ll Never Be Famous — And That’s O.K.”Considering that this play was written in the sixteenth century, during the Renaissance period, it is surprising and even baffling, that it is more relevant now than ever before. Today, everybody wants to be famous. Everyone wants to be noticed, loved and desired by everyone else. They want to raise eyebrows and swivel heads the moment they walk into a room and be important enough to make people stop chewing their food at the mention of their name.In Christopher Marlowe’s play, Faustus’ unbridled ambitions tragically lead to his downfall. After twenty-four years of enjoying all worldly pleasures, Lucifer along with his armada of devils drag Faustus into Hell for eternity as he cries out gut-wrenchingly.Victoria Li, 16, Livingston High School: “The Great Gatsby” by F. Scott Fitzgerald and “The Heartbeat of Racism Is Denial”Sinking into pillows with a pair of fuzzy socks hugging my feet and the delicious aroma of cacao permeating the air, I lost myself in the world of “The Great Gatsby.” Beyond the ball gowns and fancy cars, a sense of déjà vu washed over me, and it wasn’t due to the fact that I spent most of winter break in a similar position: curled up in bed, sipping hot chocolate. The real explanation was much less pleasant, as I realized that the same issues F. Scott Fitzgerald was commenting on in 1925 still exist today. We live in a society suffering from a severe lack of authenticity. There is no substance beneath our shiny exterior of purported principles. Maybe some of our historical documents provide a gilded barrier between what we say we represent and what we actually are. The article “The Heartbeat of Racism is Denial” addresses this disparity between our stated beliefs and the reality of our condition.Zoe Maisel, 17, South Forsyth High School: “The History Teacher” by Billy Collins and “‘To Kill a Mockingbird’ Removed From School in Mississippi”This poem describes a teacher who largely downplays the brutal and gruesome truths within history and even changes some history in order to protect the children’s innocence. He describes the Ice Age as “The Chilly Age” (3) and teaches that the “Enola Gay dropped one tiny atom on Japan” (12-13). This seems harmless and appears to keep the children happy and in a world of white picket fences, but the children in the poem are later on the playground “tormenting the weak and the smart” (15-16). The teacher’s simplistic and inaccurate accounts of history is producing adverse effects on the children- information that is necessary for their educational growth and development has been kept from them, thus breeding ignorance, hatred, and violence.This same phenomenon is happening in current times as books are being banned from schools. This is a robbery of information, as most books that are banned include great lessons for children about the world and themselves.Emily Pinheiro, 16, Arlington High School: Foreign-language study in school and “Thousands Once Spoke His Language in the Amazon. Now, He’s the Only One.”In Intuto, Peru, Amadeo García García is the last man to speak the language of Taushiro, a language dating back centuries from the jungles of the Amazon. He hasn’t had anyone to speak the language with, and it is highly likely that the language and culture will die with him. The last person Amadeo has spoken with in his native language was his brother, Juan, who died, along with his parents and others in his village, due to diseases such as malaria. Now that he is the last one, there is pressure on Amadeo to retain his culture and language....Learning a foreign language and learning the culture of another country will always have tremendous benefit, in all aspects of life and careers. We should never force someone to be in the position Amadeo is now in; we should work to maintain cultural diversity in order to benefit society and future generations.Izi Potter, 18, University of Oregon: “The Blank Page” by Karen Blixen and “My Worst Columns”At the end of stories with important messages, there is a silence that speaks. Danish writer Karen Blixen’s short story, The Blank Page, teaches this profound lesson. An old woman relays the advice her grandmother gave when teaching how to tell stories, “Where the storyteller is loyal...there, in the end, silence will speak.” ...While in this tale the reluctance to represent every story comes from a place of shame, there are numerous reasons why some stories don’t get told.These days, with access to thousands of news stories at any given moment, people have a nearly endless choice of what narratives to follow. In Nicholas Kristof’s article My Worst Columns he writes about his least “clicked on” pieces for the New York Times website. All of his “worst columns” feature stories of injustice or of situations needing humanitarian attention. These are stories with a silence that speaks, but not that many people have ever read them....When Americans avoid reading stories that place, as Kristof puts it, “...a spotlight on injustice or humanitarian need,” they never get the silence that speaks, and choose instead brash, superficial noise. This is the narrative of 2017 America which focuses on the distracting, at-home crisis of Trump and disregards issues of worldly injustice.Andrew Reilly, 18, South Forsyth High School: “Tulip Mania” in 17th century Holland and BitcoinBitcoin’s price has risen 2000% in 2017; the newfound attention associated with this rise has brought record traffic levels to many cryptocurrency exchanges, many of them buckling under the pressure of thousands of market orders during highly volatile periods of trading. This meteoric and unsustainable rise has drawn many comparisons to famous speculative bubbles throughout history, but the most commonly referenced is the Tulip Mania experienced in 17th century Holland....While the comparison between Tulip Mania and Bitcoin may seem reasonable at first, given the unprecedented rise in bitcoin price combined with the hyper-speculative nature of Bitcoin itself, what sets bitcoin apart from the Tulip Bubble is its utility and widespread distribution. Unlike a Tulip a Bitcoin can be fractionalized, making it accessible to common folk even as the price increases. It can also be traded throughout the globe near-instantaneously using the blockchain, an incorruptible cloud based ledger system that records transactions in real time, all while continuously analyzing itself for errors...The comparison between Bitcoin and Tulip Mania is overblown and irresponsible for the press to be touting as it is a poor comparison to the history behind Tulip Mania.Julia Swicionis, 16, Saint Ignatius College Prep: “Macbeth” by William Shakespeare and “Mueller’s Facts and Trump’s Make-Believe”A recent opinion editorial piece titled “Mueller’s Facts and Trump’s Make-Believe” discusses Donald Trump’s contempt for the truth, especially in regards to maintaining his power, and how other political figures are influenced by his words and actions. This piece was written by Roger Cohen, published on December 5, 2017, and gives a general synopsis of the current state of Trump’s presidency. However, it conveys the leader of the United States as a delusional, lying, and power driven similar to how Shakespeare conveyed Macbeth in his 17th century drama, Macbeth. The only difference between Cohen’s portrayal of Trump and Shakespeare’s portrayal of Macbeth is, Macbeth is a fictional character while Trump is actually the President of the United States.Abby VanLonkhuyzen, 16, Yarmouth High School: The Chinese Exclusion Act and “Trump Bars Refugees and Citizens of 7 Muslim Countries”The motivations behind the Chinese Exclusion Act and President Trump’s executive order are shockingly similar. Both were designed to limit the immigration of one particular ethnic group so those immigrants did not take jobs from the American population. But unlike the Chinese Exclusion Act, the president’s executive order faced harsh criticism and was challenged in court on several occasions. It was repealed and replaced with another, less harsh version based on similar principles, which has again been challenged several times in court, eventually making its way up to the Supreme Court .Despite similarities between the two laws, the American people have learned a lot in the last 136 years. We’ve learned that immigration doesn’t hurt the economy - it might even help it. We’ve learned that, true to American beliefs, the color of a person’s skin or the religion they practice does not matter. In a time when increasing diversity and the equality of all people under the law is considered a good thing, Americans are unafraid to speak out for what they believe in and against what they don’t.Anushka Agarwal, 16, Livingston High School: “The Great Gatsby” by F. Scott Fitzgerald and “Evaluating Sources in a ‘Post-Truth’ World: Ideas for Teaching and Learning About Fake News”Troy Barlow, 16, Duxbury High School: “David Copperfield” by Charles Dickens and “Teacher Arrested at School Board Meeting After Questioning Superintendent Contract”Alexis Batista, Jonathan Ricaldy, Lleayem Nazario-Johnson, Oleg Kamen, 18, Classical High School: “1984” by George Orwell and “Iran Bans English in Primary Schools to Block ‘Cultural Invasion’”Robert Biehler, 17, Cosby High School: The Civil War and “F.C.C. Plans Net Neutrality Repeal in a Victory for Telecoms”Margarita Bogdanova-Shapkina, 15, Oceanside High School: The Industrial Revolution and “Hard-Liners and Reformers Tapped Iranians’ Ire. Now, Both Are Protest Targets”Bronwyn, Jack, Landon, 16, Greenwood College School: “Fahrenheit 451” by Ray Bradbury and “To Make Prisons ‘Safer,’ Some Are Banning … Books”Elizabeth Buerkle, 14, Oceanside High School: Orchestra class arrangements for modern music and “A Symphony Breathes Life Into 400 Broken School Instruments”Avery Crumlish and Isabel Benson, 14, St. Michael’s Episcopal School: The geology concept of the rock cycle and “The Best Era for Working Women Was 20 Years Ago”Nathan Davidov, 17, New Milford High School: “Othello” by William Shakespeare and “10 Ways to Love Better”Diego Diaz, 17, Sandra Day O’Connor High School: “The Prince” by Niccolo Machiavelli and “When Elites Get a Taste of Their Own Medicine”Sawyer Doeg, 13, Asheville Catholic: The Indian Removal Act and “Trump Slashes Size of Bears Ears and Grand Staircase Monuments”Odin Doolittle, 16, Concord Carlisle High School: “The Wretched of the Earth” by Franz Fannon and “Rohingya Militants in Myanmar Claim Responsibility for Attack”Nathanie Doralus, 16, Wekiva High School: “Macbeth” by William Shakespeare and “The Warp-Speed Presidency”Jeric Duro, 17, New Milford High School: “Othello” by William Shakespeare and “Air Force General Addresses Racial Slurs on Campus: ‘You Should Be Outraged’”Isabella Eckler, 16, Concord Carlisle Regional High School: “Things Fall Apart” by Chinua Achebe and “Iran Bans English in Primary Schools to Block ‘Cultural Invasion’”Britney Ellman, 16, Arlington High School: Women’s rights movements in the Antebellum period and “How a Fractious Women’s Movement Came to Lead the Left”Stacy Fernandes, 18, Eunoia Junior College: “Woman in Mind” by Alan Ayckbourn and “When ‘Not Guilty’ Is a Life Sentence”Katrina Fisher, 18, New Tech High at Coppell: “Brave New World” by Aldous Huxley and “In Breakthrough, Scientists Edit a Dangerous Mutation From Genes in Human Embryos”Shane George, 17, New Milford High School: “Othello” by William Shakespeare and “Harvey Weinstein Expelled From Television Academy Over Abuse Claims”Jenny Huang, 16, North Carolina School of Science and Math: “The Yellow Wallpaper” by Charlotte Perkins Gilman and “The Reckoning: Women and Power in the Workplace”Marcel Johnican, 17, CICS Ralph Ellison: “Their Eyes Were Watching God” by Zora Neale Hurston and this photographMorgan Lafont, 16, Garden City High School: “Frankenstein” by Mary Shelley and “How Evil Is Tech?”Laura Liao, 14, West Windsor Plainsboro High School North: “Jane Eyre” by Charlotte Brontë and “At the Golden Globes, Stars and Their Activist Guests Talk About Why They Fight”Sarah Lyons, 16, Concord Carlisle High School: “The Danger of a Single Story” by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie and “Seeing Danger in a Face”Emme Magliato, 16, Arlington High School: Injustice to Native Americans and the doctrine of Manifest Destiny and “Trump Is Vandalizing Our Wild Heritage”Vidhisha Mahesh, 16, Folsom High School: “Hamlet” by William Shakespeare and “How the Myth of the Artistic Genius Excuses the Abuse of Women”Colin Mangan, 16, Oceanside High School: Election and presidency of Andrew Jackson and “The Glory of Democracy”Caitlin McCarthy, 17, Concord Carlisle Regional High School: “Things Fall Apart” by Chinua Achebe and “The World Celebrates New Year’s Eve”Sofia Olivares, 15: Climate change and “No One Is Coming to Save Us From Trump’s Racism”Sarina Patel, 14, C. Leon King High School: The French Revolution and “Open Letter From Time’s Up”Katie Remaklus, 16, The Seven Hills School: “Beowulf” and “Trump’s Twitter Threats Put American Credibility on the Line”Olivia Rockrohr, 17, Arlington High School: The California gold rush and “Google’s War Over the Sexes”Dylan Rosenthal, 16, North Broward Preparatory School: “Twelfth Night” by William Shakespeare and “With Manicures and Makeup, Japan’s ‘Genderless’ Blur Line Between Pink and Blue”Santhosh Saravanan, 17, South Forsyth High School: “The Namesake” by Jhumpa Lahiri and “Finding Myself Through My College Major”Ardi Saunders, 17, New Tech High School @ Coppell: “Brave New World” by Aldous Huxley and “Free Speech, Personified”Caitlin Terpstra, 16, Concord Carlisle High School: South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission and “After the Pain, a Chance to Meet and Forgive”Sophie Tully, 16, Cosby High School: The 1848 Seneca Falls Convention and “Amber Tamblyn: Redefining the Red Carpet”Crystella Wagner, 16, Sandra Day O’Connor High School: “The Prince” by Niccolo Machiavelli and “Stalin, Hitler and the Temptations of Totalitarianism”Anne-Kinsey Wash and Claire McCann, 13, St. Michael’s Episcopal School: The 1885-1908 rubber craze in Congo and “Apple Report Expects New iPhones to Jump-Start Growth”Emma Wigington, 17, South Forsyth High School: “Southern Cop” by Sterling Brown and “When Will Black Lives Matter in St. Louis?”Sydney Yan, 15, Biotechnology High School: The Chandrasekhar Limit (the maximum mass of a stable white dwarf star) and “American Dreamers”_________• The lesson plan that accompanied this challenge: Making It Relevant: Helping Students Connect Their Studies to the World Today• Our Text to Text series, in which The Learning Network matches often-taught literary, historical and scientific texts with Times articles past and present.• Our on-demand webinar, “Ripped From the Headlines and Applied to the Classics: Pairing Often-Taught Literary and History Texts With Times Articles and Multimedia,” which explores more ideas for helping students make connections like these._________Thank you, as always, to the teachers and students who took the time to participate. Teachers, if you’re interested, please let us know how you used the challenge in your class by writing to LNFeedback@nytimes.comThank you also to our judges, who included Learning Network staff Shannon Doyne, Caroline Gilpin, Michael Gonchar and Natalie Proulx, as well as teacher-contributors to our site, Amanda Christy Brown and Annissa Hambouz. Advertisement