AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.DAVE B. at Elsewhere (March 23, 7 p.m.). This Seattle rapper has an insistent charm that comes across on songs like “Scrolling,” from his 2017 album “Pearl,” on which he issues a string of sour gripes about modern love (“When I text you, you ignore me, that’s when I call quits”) without wearing out his welcome. He’ll work on expanding his national fan base at this Brooklyn show.elsewherebrooklyn.comCRY CRY CRY at the Town Hall (March 29, 8 p.m.). In the late 1990s, three well-liked folk singer-songwriters — Dar Williams, Richard Shindell and Lucy Kaplansky — formed this group, releasing one album of cover songs before going their separate ways. Writing about one of their concerts in The New York Times in 1999, the critic Ann Powers noted that “Cry Cry Cry epitomized the pleasure that can come from songcraft’s momentary resolutions.” This is the recently reunited trio’s first concert in New York City since then, and it should offer that pleasure in abundance.800-745-3000, thetownhall.orgDASHBOARD CONFESSIONAL at Brooklyn Steel (March 29, 8 p.m.). When making “Crooked Shadows,” Dashboard Confessional’s first album since 2009, the emo band’s leader singer and guitarist, Chris Carrabba, didn’t take that responsibility lightly. “I had decided that the worst thing that could happen was that I write an album that would hurt the legacy of the albums I’d made already,” Mr. Carrabba recently told The New York Times. “But now that I have this record, I can say it’s because I’ve gotten in touch with that place again and there was more to be found there.” Dashboard Confessional will play songs from throughout their long career on Thursday night.888-929-7849, bowerypresents.com/brooklyn-steelICEAGE at Kinfolk 94 (March 23, 8 p.m.) and Secret Project Robot (March 25, 6:30 p.m.). Seven years ago, when these moody Danish punks first touched down on our shores, they played fast, loud and wild. They’ve mellowed considerably since then — or, at least, they’ve slowed down their tempos a bit. “Beyondless,” their upcoming fourth LP, includes a swaggering, brass-laced duet with the pop singer Sky Ferreira (“Pain Killer”). Get an early taste of their new sound at these small-venue shows. (A third performance this week, at Babycastles on March 24, is sold out.)iceagecopenhagen.euKEYS N KRATES at Brooklyn Steel (March 23, 8 p.m.). Veterans of the electronic dance music festival circuit, the three Toronto musicians who make up Keys N Krates — a drummer, a keyboard player and a turntable wizard — have a subtle touch that translates well to home listening and raging parties alike. This show at Brooklyn Steel’s cavernous interior should be a pleasant dip into in the latter mode.888-929-7849, bowerypresents.com/brooklyn-steelMGMT at Sony Hall (March 27, 9 p.m.). This performance marks a fresh start in more ways than one. It’s the first concert ever held at Sony Hall, a new 1,000-person-capacity venue in Midtown that comes with all the perks a high-end corporate sponsor can afford. And the musicians taking advantage of all that cutting-edge sound-and-vision technology, the psychedelic-pop duo MGMT, just released “Little Dark Age,” which is the most straightforwardly catchy recording they’ve made in many years. Tickets for this free show went fast, but fans can sign up for Sony Hall’s waiting list — or spring for a reasonably priced resale ticket to one of MGMT’s two other sold-out dates at Kings Theater on Saturday and Brooklyn Steel on Monday.sonyhall.comOF MONTREAL at Knockdown Center (March 27, 8 p.m.). The only constant in Of Montreal’s two-decade career is inconstancy: The band’s ringleader, Kevin Barnes, tries out new musical theories at a radical clip, regularly discarding entire worldviews from album to album. On “White Is Relic/Irrealis Mood,” their 15th and latest LP, Mr. Barnes leans toward leisurely dance-pop grooves and lyrics about surreal confusion, both of which are well suited to the atmosphere of Knockdown Center, a former factory in Maspeth, Queens.knockdown.centerSIMON VOZICK-LEVINSONCLAUDIA QUINTET at the Miller Theater (March 24, 8 p.m.). Cycling minimalism, paint-splattered harmonies and subtly accruing percussion — it’s all part of the Claudia Quintet’s abstruse formula, devised by the drummer and composer John Hollenbeck. The group has released eight albums over the past 15 years, becoming something of an idiosyncratic institution in the liminal territory between jazz and contemporary classical. The band appears here with Matt Moran on vibraphone, Red Wierenga on accordion, Chris Speed on clarinet and tenor saxophone, and Drew Gress on bass. 212-854-7799, millertheatre.comRAVI COLTRANE at Jazz Standard (March 27-April 1, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Mr. Coltrane’s music finds a tottery balance in the space between free-form improvisation and pulsing, onrushing flow. He hasn’t released an album in six years, but he has been busy; most recently he’s put a lot of effort toward furthering the legacy of his mother, the jazz pianist and harpist Alice Coltrane. He appears at Jazz Standard in a trio featuring the bassist Dezron Douglas and the drummer Allan Mednard, as well as a rotation of special guests. On Wednesday, it’s the saxophonist Tomoki Sanders, the son of Pharoah Sanders, an esteemed musician who collaborated in the 1960s and ’70s with Ms. Coltrane. On March 30, it’ll be the harpist Brandee Younger; and on April 1, the trumpeter Ralph Alessi.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comANDREW CYRILLE QUARTET at the Village Vanguard (March 27-April 1, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.). An experimental drummer who can easily balance propulsion and sensitivity, Mr. Cyrille began his career in the 1960s, when he apprenticed with Philly Joe Jones and recorded with the big-band-era eminence Coleman Hawkins. Then he embarked on a 10-year stint with Cecil Taylor, a pioneer of free jazz, establishing himself as a protagonist on the avant-garde. Now 78, Mr. Cyrille has never lost his omnivorous musical appetite; his work ranges from free improvisations to smoldering small-group jazz to a collaboration with Haitian musicians. He performs here with the personnel from his entrancing 2016 release, “The Declaration of Musical Independence”: Bill Frisell on guitar, Richard Teitelbaum on synthesizers and piano, and Ben Street on bass.212-255-4037, villagevanguard.comORRIN EVANS at Mezzrow (March 28, 8 and 9:30 p.m.). It’s been a big year for this Philadelphia-based pianist: He made his leadership debut at the Newport Jazz Festival in August, playing a riveting solo set, and he officially joined the Bad Plus, a renowned power trio, in February. But catch him in a small combo, and he can renew your faith in the vitality of classic, straight-ahead jazz. He works in an argot of amiable swing, punctuated by startling disruptions and occasional shots of seraphic beauty. Mr. Evans celebrates his 43rd birthday at this intimate show in a stalwart quartet with the trumpeter Sean Jones, the bassist Luques Curtis and the drummer Gene Jackson.646-476-4346, mezzrow.comBOBBY MCFERRIN SPIRITYOUALL at the Blue Note (March 23-April 1, 8 and 10:30 p.m.). Since the 1980s, audiences have known Mr. McFerrin as a virtuoso vocalist who can deliver entire captivating sets without any accompaniment. But when he’s with his Spirityouall band, Mr. McFerrin discovers untold possibilities in the rootsy, molten arrangements of Gil Goldstein, the ensemble’s pianist and musical director. Spirityouall has a smartly tailored aesthetic, but Mr. McFerrin complicates and provokes it — sounding shots of vocal percussion, modulating the flow, coaxing kinetics out of languor. Here Mr. Goldstein helms a five-piece band, and Mr. McFerrin is joined on vocals by his daughter, Madison, a notable talent in her own right. 212-475-8592, bluenote.netTHE SWING COLLECTIVE at Jazz at Lincoln Center (March 23-24, 7 and 9:30 p.m.). The Swing Collective features five young improvisers of growing renown, all hailing from different countries of origin. Out front are Melissa Aldana — a Chilean-born tenor saxophonist of precise, fine-bore articulation, boasting a vast palette of influences — and the Trinidadian trumpeter Etienne Charles, who makes a kind of nouveau Afro-Caribbean soul jazz. The formidable rhythm section features the Cuban pianist Elio Villafranca, the Japanese bassist Yasushi Nakamura and the Florida-born drummer Ulysses Owens.212-721-6500, jazz.orgTHERESA WONG at the Stone (March 27-31, 8:30 p.m.). A singing cellist and an experimentalist of patient, farsighted demeanor, Ms. Wong leaves all options on the table: Most of the time, she plays the instrument in slow swipes and resonant plucks, resisting pattern or repetition. In residence at the Stone, Ms. Wong appears in a duo with the pianist Motoko Honda on Tuesday, alone on Wednesday and in a variety of small-group formations through March 31.thestonenyc.comGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement