AdvertisementWith Andrew Ross SorkinFEB. 6, 2018
Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:• Tronc nears a deal to sell L.A. Times.• Dow surges 500 points.• Reasons not to worry about the recent sell-off.• Disney easily exceeds Wall Street’s expectations.• Snap jumps 20 percent after earnings.• Clayton: “There’s nothing that came out of this that concerns me.”• Is algorithmic trading to blame for Monday’s plunge?Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.The owner of The Los Angeles Times is close to a deal to sell the newspaper to Patrick Soon-Shiong, a billionaire Los Angeles doctor, two people familiar with the negotiations said Tuesday. The $500 million deal comes amid months of turmoil at The Times, including upheaval in the editorial and management ranks.AdvertisementThe transaction would include The Times and The San Diego Union-Tribune, these people said. Dr. Soon-Shiong is a major shareholder in Tronc, the parent company of The Times.AdvertisementA deal could be announced as soon as Wednesday but could still fall apart, the people said. Tronc is likely to use the sale proceeds to pay down its debt.Dr. Soon-Shiong, the founder, chief executive and chairman of NantHealth, a health care company, was in a public feud last year with Michael W. Ferro Jr., Tronc’s nonexecutive chairman, as they vied to increase their stakes in the company in apparent attempts to outmaneuver each other for control.— Sydney EmberAfter days of sometimes wild moves in stock markets, investors on Wall Street refocused on the ongoing strength in the American economy as shares of consumer companies helped lead broad indexes higher.A sometimes-panicky global market sell-off — begun Monday when the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index lost more than 4 percent, its worst decline since August 2011 — dissipated through the day, and the S.&P. 500 ended Tuesday’s session up by about 1.7 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average gained about 2.3 percent.The consumer discretionary sector of the S.&P. 500 jumped by more than 2 percent, pulled higher by strength in well-known consumer-facing companies like Amazon, Netflix and Home Depot. General Motors also rose after reporting strong earnings and strong demand for its pickup trucks and SUVs.Investors appeared to reassess whether the previous day’s violent decline—the S.&P. suffered its worst decline since August 2011—reflected actual fundamentals or was merely a long-overdue outbreak of investor jitters.For months, markets seemed to sleepwalk higher, as measures of volatility—the ups and downs of stock prices—hit historically low levels. Investors appeared to grow accustomed to an economic backdrop in which growth and inflation remained lackluster, a state of affairs that ensured powerful global central banks would continue to support markets with a range of policies.AdvertisementBut the peaceful climb ended over the past week amid worries that solid economic growth in the United States and abroad could be showing early signals of growing inflation pressure. Those concerns drove yields on long-term Treasury bonds sharply higher in recent weeks, as economic data—such as the U.S. jobs report on Friday—showed wages growing at their fastest clip in years.— Matt PhillipsThe Walt Disney Company on Tuesday became the latest prominent company to report solid earnings amidst the market turmoil. The strong numbers support the belief that plunging stock markets do not reflect weakness in the real economy.Disney made $1.89 per share in the last three months of 2017, after excluding a tax benefit. That number is 22 percent higher than the $1.55 per share earnings in the same period of 2016. It is also well in excess of the $1.61 per share that Wall Street analysts had forecast for the latest quarter.Disney did best in its parks and resorts business, which reported $1.35 billion of operating income, which was 21 percent higher than the year-earlier period. The earlier period’s results were somewhat depressed by the impact of Hurricane Matthew, Disney said. In its press release, the company noted that higher profits at its domestic parks and resorts were driven by an increase in guest spending and an increase in attendance, which underscores consumers’ willingness to spend more. On the other hand, the company said parks and resorts are dealing with higher labor costs and other expenses. That may not be lost on investors who are starting to see inflation as a threat to stock prices.— Peter EavisThe company reported earnings after the close that easily beat analysts’ expectations.The Numbers• Snap reported revenue rose 72 percent to $285.7 million, easily exceeding the $252.9 million expected by analysts.• The company lost 13 cents per share, below estimates of 16 cents a share.• Snap added 8.9 million daily active users for a total of 187 million, compared to the 184.2 million estimated.The ContextSnap’s shares have struggled since its initial public offering in March 2017. The stock fell below its I.P.O price of $17 a share last summer and has remained below that level since. If Snap’s after-hours gains hold up on Wednesday, the stock will be on the cusp of crossing back over its I.P.O. level.AdvertisementThe stock market’s slide over the past week has given investors plenty of anxiety.Stocks have lost roughly $4 trillion in value. The Dow Jones industrial average and the S.&P. 500 endured their worst point declines in their histories Monday and their largest percentage drops since 2011. C.B.O.E. Volatility Index surged more than 100 percent Monday, the biggest increase in its history.But there are reasons investors shouldn’t get too concerned.1) Heading into the final hour of trading, the markets have rebounded strongly. The Dow has jumped 2 percent, while the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq Composite are up 1.6 percent and 1.9 percent. That suggests that worst of the sell-off may be passed.2) The outlook for economic growth is strong in the United States. The American economy grew 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter and the Atlanta Fed’s GDPNow tracker forecasts a 4 percent rise in the first quarter.3) Corporate America’s bottom line is growing. With 50 percent of the companies in the S.&P. 500 having reported results, profits are on pace to grow 13.4 percent, according to FactSet. If that growth rate holds through the end of earnings, it would mark the third quarter in the past four that S.&P. 500 companies have reported a double-digit profits increase.4) The sell-off comes after a big run-up in stocks. Until Monday, the Dow and the S.&P. 500 hadn’t endured a pullback of 5 percent in more than 400 sessions. Since 1929, a 5 percent decline happens every 92 days on average, according to Goldman Sachs. So stocks were arguably due for a selloff. But it should be noted that after Monday’s declines the Dow was at levels last seen in, well, mid-December and was up more than 30 percent since the 2016 election.Strategists over at Goldman Sachs wrote:“The stock market correction appears to be more technical and positioning-driven rather than fundamentally-based.We believe the fundamental drivers of the equity market remain intact and reiterate our S&P 500 year-end 2018 forecast of 2850.”The company, founded by Elon Musk, achieved a new milestone with a successful test launch of its Falcon Heavy rocket, the most powerful rocket in operation in the world today.Here’s a video of the launch:When stock markets are plunging, sober-minded investors try to gauge the underlying strength of bellwether companies, to see whether all the selling is justified.That is why many eyes will be on the earnings of the Walt Disney Company, which reports after the close of regular trading Tuesday. If the company releases stronger-than-expected results for the three months through the end of December, it will reinforce a general sense of optimism about corporate America .AdvertisementStellar results from Disney would add to a strong earnings report on Tuesday from General Motors, which helped push the company’s shares 3 percent higher. Micron Technology, a large maker of computer chips, on Monday upped its outlook for the current quarter. Its shares soared 7.7 percent on Tuesday.Though Disney is not a high growth company, its results offer insight into the strength of consumer spending. As a result, if the company reports earnings that are below the forecasts of Wall Street analysts, it may add to the unease among investors..The numbers to watch: Analysts expect Disney to earn $1.61 per share, and take in $15.44 billion in revenue in the quarter, according to data from Bloomberg.Of course, a lot more companies are going to have to report strong earnings to convince investors to jump back into the stock market. One of the reasons that stocks rallied in recent months is that analysts are expecting a 20-percent plus jump in profits in 2018, an eye-popping rise. The more large companies that hit their numbers in this earnings season, the more likely the stock market will find a floor.— Peter EavisAt a hearing of the Senate banking committee on Tuesday, Senator Richard Shelby of Alabama asked the heads of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission about the market turmoil.“Is this perhaps more than an ordinary correction?” Mr. Shelby asked.Jay Clayton, the chairman of the S.E.C. said that he could not tell what had caused the big declines, but he said that the market infrastructure had held up well under the strain of heavy trading.“As I sit here today, there’s nothing that came out of this that concerns me,” Mr. Clayton said.Christopher Giancarlo, the chairman of the C.F.T.C. said that his staff had a late night on Monday checking in with all the exchanges, and had not heard anything that concerned them.Advertisement“The system worked as it was designed to do,” he said.— Nathaniel PopperFollowing a House Financial Services Committee hearing, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that he has been in touch with market participants this week and that they are reacting in an orderly fashion and that there are no liquidity problems. He said it was possible that algorithmic trading was partially responsible for the recent volatility in the stock market.“I have heard from others that it has played a role, as there’s more programmed trading, this tends to have volatility in both directions,” he said.Despite that volatility, it does not appear that the Trump administration is ready to give up on the stock market as a measure of its success.“We’ve always been looking at the long-term impact of the stock market, it’s still up over 30 percent since the election and we continue to think American is a great place to do business,” Mr. Mnuchin said. “We couldn’t be happier with companies’ response with more and more investments in the U.S.”— Alan RappeportAsked about the roiled stock market at a House Financial Services Committee hearing on Tuesday, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said that the Trump administration was not concerned and that it remains focused on the long-term trajectory of the economy.“We are very focused on long-term economic growth, and we believe that the policies that we have enacted, including tax reform are very positive for long-term economic growth,” Mr. Mnuchin said.He said that he was closely monitoring for orderly market functioning and that there were “no systemic issues” that were reported to him.“I’m happy to report I got the green lights,” Mr. Mnuchin said.The Treasury secretary said that given how much the market has rallied in the last year, he does not think the recent drop in prices raises financial stability concerns.AdvertisementAsked if the Trump administration will take the blame for the recent drop in stocks after taking credit for the rally, Mr. Mnuchin demurred.“I think we’ll still claim credit for the fact that it’s up over 30 percent since the election,” he said of the stock market.Our columnist Andrew Ross Sorkin and his Times colleagues help you make sense of major business and policy headlines — and the power-brokers who shape them.Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.Invalid email address. Please re-enter.You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.View all New York Times newsletters.— Alan RappeportWhen stock markets sell off as they have the past two trading sessions, there is often more than one cause. But one popular trade is taking a lot of blame for Monday’s plunge: short volatility.Investors had piled money into exchange-traded products designed to rise when the C.B.O.E. Volatility Index, or VIX, falls. The VIX, known as the market’s fear gauge, measures how volatile investors expect stock markets to be in the month ahead. Those wagers paid off handsomely, rising 180 percent last year as the VIX plumbed historic lows.That quickly reversed Monday. The VIX surged 117 percent in its biggest one-day jump on record and two short volatility exchange-traded product — VelocityShares Daily Inverse VIX Short-Term Exchange Traded Note, XIV, and Next Notes S&P 500 VIX Inverse ETN — endured heavy selling.The selling led Credit Suisse to say it is going to buy back XIV and after the bank has done that it will no longer exist. Nomura also said its Next Notes “would be redeemed at a steep discount to their closing price on Monday in Asia, crystallizing large losses for investors,” the WSJ reported.From Barclays:“In our opinion, the significant spike in the VIX index and futures yesterday was technical in nature and does not necessarily indicate a true increase in risk perception.”From Morgan Stanley:“The near bankruptcy of the inverse VIX ETPs will be a very negative headline, and the several billion dollar loss for holders, largely retail, will scare some out of the market or force liquidations of other products to raise cash.”From Nicholas Colas, co-founder of DataTrek Research:“ Assuming volatility-related ETFs really are a market structure “Achilles heel”, this will take days if not weeks to play out, and there could be other problems waiting in the wings.”— Stephen GrocerStock markets around the world appear headed down for a third straight trading day, after yesterday’s 4 percent drop in the S.&P. 500. Here are the latest numbers:• Hong Kong’s Hang Seng fell 5 percent.• Japan’s Nikkei was down 4.7 percent.• The U.K.’s FTSE 100 was down 2 percent.• Wall Street’s “fear gauge,” the VIX, is at its highest level in two and a half years.AdvertisementAnd here’s some more context from our colleague Peter Eavis.The technical question: Has computer-driven unwinding of “Goldilocks” trades tied to peaceful market rises played a role here?The economic question: Economies are growing around the world, which is likely to mean rising wages and then, perhaps, inflation. So will central bankers have to raise rates more than previously expected?The political question: What does this mean for President Trump, who has touted stock market gains as a measure of his success?More from Ben White of Politico:“This is a risk that the president clearly set himself up for,” said Charles Gabriel of Capital Alpha Partners, a Washington research firm. “Until now, Trump’s had kind of a free ride in this market and taken so much credit for it, even though so much of it was due to easy-money policies from Janet Yellen and the Fed. Now she’s out the door and volatility is back.”There’s another way of thinking about Mr. Trump’s role, Andrew writes in his latest column:Investors believe his policies to stoke growth are going to work so well that they will overheat the economy, and force the Federal Reserve to try to slow things down.But don’t expect action from the newly sworn-in Fed chairman, Jay Powell — at least, not yet.A bit of humor, courtesy of our colleague Binyamin Appelbaum:Where Bitcoin was this morning: $6,628, down almost 16 percent over the past 24 hours, according to CoinMarketCap. Ethereum’s Ether and Ripple’s XRP fell by double digits, too.What’s happening: Regulators are clamping down on digital money, and scams and hacks are eroding trust in it.More from Nathaniel Popper of the NYT:“Cryptocurrencies are almost a perfect vehicle for scams,” said Kevin Werbach, a professor at University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School. “The combination of credulous buyers and low barriers for scammers were bound to lead to a high level of fraud, if and when the money involved got large.”Next: The heads of the S.E.C. and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission are to talk Bitcoin with the Senate Banking Committee today.The House appears ready to vote on a stopgap bill; funding would otherwise expire at 12:01 a.m. on Friday.What it does: Pairs short-term funding for the government with long-term funding for the military.What it doesn’t do: Include the increase in domestic spending demanded by Democrats, particularly Senate Democrats. Nor does it address immigration, which caused last month’s shutdown (though Senators John McCain and Chris Coons have a bipartisan proposal on that).AdvertisementExpect more give-and-take between the two sides of Congress:“I think everyone understands that this will probably end up being a Ping-Pong situation, and we’ll see where the ball lands,” said Representative Carlos Curbelo, Republican of Florida.Elsewhere in policy• Most of President Trump’s legal team wants to avoid letting Robert Mueller question him. (NYT)• Mr. Trump flippantly suggested that Democrats who sat through his State of the Union address stone-faced were guilty of treason. (NYT)• The House Intelligence Committee voted unanimously to release a Democratic memo tied to the investigation of a Trump campaign aide. Now it’s up to the White House. (Politico)• China is investigating U.S. sorghum exports, a move that threatens a widening trade standoff. (NYT)It depends whether AT&T’s bid for Time Warner goes through. Comcast dropped out of the running for Fox once it became clear that Rupert Murdoch would prefer a tie-up with Disney, but it is studying whether to rejoin the fray, CNBC reported.More from Alex Sherman of CNBC:An unsolicited offer at a premium to Disney’s bid could persuade enough Fox shareholders to vote against Murdoch. His family controls 39 percent of Fox’s Class B voting shares but owns only 17 percent of all outstanding shares. Comcast executives suggested to Murdoch last year they would be willing to pay significantly more for Fox’s assets than what Disney was offering, said the people. Murdoch still went with the Disney offer, in large part due to regulatory concerns with Comcast.Elsewhere in the deal world• Archer-Daniels Midland is in advanced talks to buy Bunge, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)• Kroger agreed to sell its convenience store business to the British investment firm EG Group for $2.15 billion. (FT)• Alibaba and an arm of the Chinese government have bought roughly 13 percent of Dalian Wanda’s movie business for $1.2 billion. (Bloomberg)Advertisement• Midstates Petroleum offered to merge with SandRidge Energy in an all-stock deal that would create a nearly $1 billion oil company. (Reuters)• Viacom is near a deal to buy the online video conference VidCon, unnamed sources say. (Variety)• Elliott Advisors continued to push BHP Billiton to simplify its dual-listed corporate structure. (FT)• Walmart has bought a virtual reality start-up, Spatialand, for its Store No. 8 incubator unit. (Recode)“I talked to women engineers at Uber who were getting invited to strip clubs and bondage clubs in the middle of the day. The middle of the day! And often they would go because that’s just what everyone was doing.”That’s what Emily Chang of Bloomberg said about her reporting for “Brotopia,” her forthcoming book about the lopsided power dynamics in Silicon Valley. (NYT)The misconduct flyaround• Steve Wynn and his legal representatives set up a limited liability company solely to handle settlement funds, including $7.5 million for a manicurist who accused him of sexual assault. (WSJ)• Laurent Potdevin resigned as C.E.O. of Lululemon because, the company said, he had failed to “exemplify the highest levels of integrity and respect for one another.” (NYT)• A partner at the international law firm Baker McKenzie lost his job after allegations surfaced that he had sexually assaulted a female colleague. (FT)• Even with generous social policies, women in Scandinavia are still paid less than men, because they spend more time on child-rearing. (NYT)AdvertisementThe venture firm, which has invested in the likes of Groupon, Dollar Shave Club and Nutanix, has closed both its 12th venture fund, at $800 million, and its latest side fund for later-stage deals, at $450 million. (It also promoted Morad Elhafed to general partner.)Battery’s latest investment focuses include big data, cloud and A.I. software, and consumer internet apps.From Michael Brown, a Battery general partner:“The successful closing of Battery Ventures XII and Battery Ventures XII Side Fund illustrates our firm’s continuing, consistent growth through up-and-down market cycles, technology trends and new geographies over decades.”The tech flyaround• The Uber-Waymo trial began with dueling sports metaphors. (NYT)• Meanwhile, Uber is working on its relationship with drivers. (Recode)• Isaac Choi, who was C.E.O. of the failed start-up WrkRiot, has pleaded guilty to defrauding employees. (Axios)• American and British lawmakers will convene to discuss their respective inquiries into social media’s impact on elections. (Axios)• Facebook is hiring an “extraterrestrial product manager” to oversee an aerospace initiative. (CNBC)• Hudson’s Bay, the parent of Saks and Lord & Taylor, has hired a new C.E.O.: Helena Foulkes, the president of CVS’s pharmacy division. (NYT)• So has Avon: Jan Zijderveld, most recently the head of Unilever’s European business. (FT)• President Trump plans to nominate Charles Rettig, a tax lawyer, to lead the I.R.S. (WSJ)Advertisement• Stephen Friend, a co-founder of Sage Bionetworks who joined Apple’s health care team, has left the tech giant. (CNBC)• Marco Santori, a partner at the law firm Cooley and an expert in initial coin offerings, has joined the virtual currency start-up Blockchain as its chief legal officer. (Axios)• Saudi Arabia is trying to untie itself from oil and tie itself to one of its other natural resources: sunlight. (NYT)• Renée James, a former No. 2 at Intel, is taking aim at the company’s most lucrative business, which she helped to build. (NYT)• Two top editors and a reporter at Newsweek were fired on Monday in a purge that targeted employees involved in covering the company’s financial and legal troubles. (NYT)• Melvyn I. Weiss, whose class-action lawsuits made him a pariah to corporate America, a hero to plaintiffs, a catalyst for legal protections of investors and consumers and finally a felon, died on Friday at 82. (NYT)• Romana Acosta Bañuelos, the U.S. treasurer under President Nixon, has died at 92. (NYT)• A lunch for Oscar nominees attracted protests over the lack of Hispanic characters in movies. (NYT)• James Gorman, asked to rate his time leading Morgan Stanley, gave himself an A-minus. (Bloomberg)Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Advertisement