AdvertisementSupported byOp-Ed ContributorBy Scott MalcomsonMr. Malcomson is the author of “Splinternet: How Geopolitics and Commerce Are Fragmenting the World Wide Web.”Is Silicon Valley going to war? In 2013, Amazon beat IBM for a contract to host the United States intelligence community’s data cloud. Microsoft now markets Azure Government Secret, its cloud-computing service designed specifically for federal and local governments, to the Defense Department and intelligence agencies. And last year, Google signed a contract with the Pentagon for Project Maven, a pilot program to accelerate the military’s use of artificial intelligence.These partnerships might ease anxiety in the Defense Department about China’s artificial-intelligence advances and ominous, state-led fusion of civil and military technology development. But a comparable fusion of the United States government and Silicon Valley would be a mistake.This is not so much because it would compromise Silicon Valley values, as more than 3,000 Google employees argued in a recent letter about Project Maven to the company’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai. Rather, it’s because the United States’ edge in techno-military competition exists in great part because we have a tech sector that is not dominated by the state and its needs.Narrowing the focus of the United States tech sector to the needs of the military would serve neither party. On the contrary, it would make the nation weaker.To be sure, defense contracts are hardly new in Silicon Valley, and Google’s recent moves might be seen as heralding Silicon Valley’s return to its natural home in defense contracting. But that would be to misunderstand both Silicon Valley history and today’s technology.The internet and much of digital computing did indeed emerge from decades of United States defense contracts, beginning as long ago as World War I. Yet the Pentagon itself sloughed off the internet — not knowing quite what to do with it, and rightly judging it to be insecure — to the National Science Foundation. When the internet became a commercial concern, the National Science Foundation off-loaded it to the Department of Commerce. Government might have given birth to the internet, but it sure didn’t raise it.The emergence of a civilian, entrepreneurial tech culture in the 1970s owed as much intellectually, if not (at first) financially, to the antiwar movement and the 1960s counterculture — hardly friends of the military-industrial complex. Out of this the dominant, highly creative ethos of geek antiauthoritarianism grew. It is hard to believe that closer ties with the military would perpetuate this culture of innovation.The technology involved in projects like Azure Government Secret and Project Maven is also very different from the data-sharing projects of the 1960s. Those older technologies would not have been created in the absence of government funding. Today’s projects, in contrast, are all basically A.I. plays. Very little of this is defense-specific, but all of it is useful for defense and espionage. Unlike, say, weapons development, A.I. research is inherently dual-use. United States tech giants would be pursuing it with or without government contracts. Silicon Valley does not need the Pentagon to initiate these endeavors.The Pentagon is in a different position. It came around very reluctantly to the idea that it is dependent on private industry for the defense of the country and the projection of American power. But come around it has, in no small part thanks to China.China’s state interest in A.I. was initially economic, but military uses were never far behind. As Elsa B. Kania, a researcher at the Center for a New American Security, explained in an influential report, “A.I. is a high-level priority within China’s national agenda for military-civil fusion,” a strategy that should allow the Chinese armed forces to benefit from private-sector advances in A.I.The United States military seems to have been spooked. In a 2017 memo, the deputy secretary of defense, Robert O. Work, wrote that while the Defense Department had made “tentative steps” in A.I., “we need to do much more, and move much faster.” The memo announced the formation of Project Maven to do just that. This month, Gen. Stephen Wilson, the vice chief of staff for the Air Force, said that China is taking a “whole of nation” approach to A.I. and the United States should, too.Yet we shouldn’t forget that civil-military antagonism and the deep American tradition of distrusting the state have been crucial to the United States’ ability to innovate. There are good reasons why defense-tech giants of the 1960s, ’70s and ’80s like Raytheon and Grumman missed out on such major tech advances as Web protocols, the smartphone, personal computers and various types of encryption — all of which would eventually have great military significance. The biggest reason was that none of these advances were directed at waging war; indeed, many aimed at transcending the power of the state.After the Cold War, the Soviet Union’s extraordinary technological capacity dissipated in large part because it had been so reactive: The Soviets had let their adversary determine the pace and scope of their own innovation. The United States should not make that mistake.Scott Malcomson (@smalcomson) is the director of special projects at Strategic Insight Group, a former State Department official and the author of “Splinternet: How Geopolitics and Commerce Are Fragmenting the World Wide Web.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement