AdvertisementSupported byWhat to CookBy Sam SiftonGood morning! The kids have been listening to the “Falsettos” soundtrack, Bluetoothing it onto the kitchen radio over and over, Trina singing “Jason’s Therapy”:Chop chop chop chop chopI chopped itIt’s a gourmet version of chicken MarengoAnd of course that’s an earwig, and now all I want to make is actual chicken Marengo (above), serve it to the family in my imaginary Village townhouse just as if I were Matthew Broderick on a Broadway dark night serving S.J.P., candles flickering under high, high ceilings before Lapine comes over to show us a script, run a few lines. The recipe is dead simple and comes along quite quickly, goes beautifully with buttered egg noodles and plenty of parsley.More traditional for a Monday night, particularly in the New Orleans precincts we’ve traveled with Pableaux Johnson over the years, might be a meal of red beans and rice.(Or more typical for a Monday night, perhaps: 10 reasons to buy a rotisserie chicken. Or one of the recipes in our collection “What to Cook When You’d Rather Be Doing Anything Else.”)What I’d do if not for the Marengo: Make David Tanis’s new recipe for shepherd’s pie, an adaptation of one he picked up from the Irish chef Darina Allen. Or maybe this simple mushroom soup instead. Or a stir fry of spicy ginger pork noodles with bok choy?What I’ve found with cooking at the start of the week, it’s good to have insurance on top of the idée fixe. So if something goes wrong this afternoon, and I get home a few hours after I’d intended: thin slices of the Olympia Provisions salamis my sister-in-law sends me every month, shingled into corn quesadillas or diced into scrambled eggs. I’ll serve that with fridge-cold red wine, then watch this video recipe for cheesecake afterward, browse this guide to the best gas grill and dream of a better tomorrow.There are many, many more recipes to consider cooking tonight and all week — all month, all year — at NYT Cooking. Go take a look and see what you find. (I bet I could make this mustard and chile-rubbed beef tenderloin on my new grill, serve it with maple-candied sweet potatoes, then eat the cheesecake and go into a food coma.)Save the recipes that interest you to your recipe box. Then send yourself a shopping list for those you want to make and cook them real soon. If you make an ingredient substitution or come up with a shortcut, leave a note on the recipe to tell us about it, or tag us on Instagram or Facebook, to show your work plain.And please get in touch if anything goes wackadoodle with a recipe or the technology we use on our site and apps. We want to make things better, every day. Just write: cookingcare@nytimes.com. We’ll write back.Now, a long way from debating Marengo or stir-fry (and only if you’re not triggered by moms, diapers and crying), you might want to check out the trailer for “Tully,” the Charlize Theron vehicle that’s coming to theaters next month.I liked Jennifer Givhan’s poem “Plan B” in Ploughshares. I’m digging Ben Dolnick’s new novel, “The Ghost Notebooks.” Also Valee’s jangly noir-rap single “Juice & Gin.”Finally, today is the birthday of Coca-Cola, which was first bottled and sold on this day in 1894, in Vicksburg, Miss. Now they sell it in huge plastic containers for pennies on the dollar, but history records, the restaurateur Joe Allen serves and this newsletter affirms as fact that the best serving size of a Coke is 8 ounces, in a glass bottle, super cold, just as it was at the tail end of the 19th century. Have a great week.cookingcookingAdvertisement