AdvertisementSupported byRosie Perez, Thurston Moore and others on how they made it in New York during one of the city’s most dizzying periods, from 1981 through 1983.I lived in the Colonnades — they’re those 1830s buildings on Lafayette Street across the street from the Public Theater. I had a studio apartment with all the period details, like little wooden doors over the windows. There was also a white marble fireplace, where I kept a brazier. In those days I was an ambitious cook — I’d shop at Balducci’s on Sixth Avenue, where you could get exotic things like white eggplant and dazzle your guests. My most famous guest was Michel Foucault, who once told me he was going to come over with 10 boys he’d picked up, but who didn’t know each other. I was afraid they’d have nothing to say to each other and that it would be a disaster. I called my mother and said, “Eek, what do I do?” and she said, “Cook for three days and make 22 Indian dishes and then they’ll just talk about food all night.” So I did.I found an 800-square-foot loft at Clinton and Stanton Streets, prompting John Vaccaro, the founder of Playhouse of the Ridiculous, to say, “You can’t live on Stanton Street. It’s like Vietnam down there — you can’t tell who the enemy is.” There was a Key Food at Avenue A and East Fourth Street, and east or south of that you didn’t even see people in the street. But two highly refined gay painters who worked as guards at the Met had lived in the building since 1945, so how scary could it be? My apartment had a wall missing, so that it was open to the hallway, and the floor was charred where someone had made a campfire. There was a stove, a sink, a shower and a typewriter, and these medieval-looking shutters with crossbars. I kept a futon on one end of the space and on the other I’d improvise solo performances, blasting music and putting my cigarettes out on the floor. You could still find cheap places but nobody stayed in them very long, because inevitably issues — legal issues — would arise. For a while I lived on the Upper West Side. It wasn’t a fancy neighborhood, but I lived in an old brownstone. My floor was the parlor floor, and it had sliding doors to what the owners had converted to a kitchen. Off the kitchen was a bathroom with a full-size bathtub. It was too big for the room, though, and there was a niche cut so that the tub, which was boxed in like a coffin, protruded out into the hallway. So you’d lie flat in this sort of sarcophagus and when other tenants would enter the building, they’d step on this box, with my upper half inside, on their way up the stairs.I was living on West 62nd Street right across the street from Lincoln Center, on the 28th floor of this very distinctive-looking building with a prefab kind of exterior and cylindrical balconies on every floor. It was very modern — every room was rectangular with exact right angles. When people would walk into my kitchen, it was sort of a scary experience because the glass went from the ceiling right down to the floor. They were just starting to build these sort of gigantic semi-monstrosities that we now have all over the city. I don’t like that style of apartment — now I live in a turn-of-the-century building with all this gorgeous burled maple wood — but at the time it was sort of cool, and everything happened there. It was in that apartment that I did arrangements for Bowie, INXS, Paul Simon, Duran Duran, B-52’s and Madonna.My building, a brown brick on East Ninth Street between University Place and Broadway, was like all the others built at that time. It wasn’t extravagant by any means, so I set about making adjustments to it. I plate-mirrored one wall of the living room and turned it into an art gallery. Egon von Furstenberg came for a party one night and said, “One would never imagine an apartment like this in a building like this!” I said, “Well, I’ll take the left-handed compliment.” Then Donald Sterzin [the art director of GQ] picked up on it and organized a story on the space for GQ. I knew when that happened that I was going to have to come out publicly. As one friend said to me, “Tom, who’s going to look at those pictures and see the bowl of tulips on the pedestal under a perfect down spot and not know?”I started working when I was about 10 years old. I was back and forth from the group home in upstate New York, and I would do people’s lawns, clean out their garages, babysit, really anything. I used to do well. I would make $10 for babysitting, $5 for raking leaves. My first major job was at Wyckoff Hospital, and I didn’t like it. I was hired to transcribe medical records via Dictaphone. I could type really fast in high school — 90 words per minute. I wish I still had my first paycheck, because I was so proud. Going to the bank to cash it, I felt like such a grown-up. I was a hustler even back then.At this point in my life I knew I wanted to make records, but I didn’t know how to make them. I found a job in the back of the New York Post asking for a shipping clerk. I went up there and it was Masterdisk, a place that cut records — people like Frank Zappa or Bryan Ferry would come in. So I got to see how it worked. I’d take the acetates of the records and deliver them to different places in midtown, like RCA Studios. The more I got involved with my band, the Coachmen, and then Sonic Youth, though — well it prohibited me from having a very cogent day job. I kept not going to work. And there was no way to contact me, because I couldn’t afford a telephone. Eventually I would go in and sheepishly say, “I’m sorry.” They kind of liked me and would let it go, but at some point they let me go. Then, by maybe the third or fourth Sonic Youth album, we had a good enough profile where we could actually use a really good mastering studio: Masterdisk. It was kind of like, welcome back.My roommate, Shawn Hausman, and I worked for Steve Mass, designing different spaces in the Mudd Club. We’d have these absurd hours: painting a Renaissance ceiling in the basement at 4 in the morning. We also worked on movies, because Shawn’s father was in the industry. We’d stay out all night and then go and do location scouting or production work on different films. When there wasn’t film work we would do what you would call art directing work for other nightclubs, including Studio 54 and Danceteria, before starting our own. The motivation in those days was definitely not money. We were just barely surviving.I made quite a few friends selling T-shirts outside of my mom’s store in Brooklyn, pulling kids off the street to participate in my fashion shows. I was selling T-shirts from 11 years old. I would hand-paint them, cut them, fringe them — what I would see people in the Village doing when I was much younger. Then I started cutting fabric and gluing it together with Magic Stitch and, eventually, sewing. We had a big house, so it was very, “Let’s go to my house and get dressed up, wear clothes and take photos.” That would be an after-school activity, listening to everything from Polyrock to Gang of Four to LiLiPUT to Siouxsie and the Banshees, Echo & the Bunnymen, you name it. I was making $100 on a slow day, because usually I’d sell at least 10 or 15 T-shirts, so I always had money on me. My mom used to hide money everywhere. I was definitely doing research at the homestead, looking for the places she was putting extra cash.I moved to New York in the fall of 1978. I was 19 and wanted to get out of my Wonder Bread and mayonnaise world in Syracuse. I was accepted to the Fashion Institute of Technology for illustration, and to the University at Buffalo to do art. I thought, hmm, Buffalo or New York City? I enrolled at FIT but I didn’t get a place to live. When my parents dropped me off at the school, I said, “Oh, it’s not ready yet, I’ll see you later, bye!” I was kind of homeless, couch-surfing for about six months. And I didn’t like school or illustration. I wanted to draw little patterns and they only wanted lines. So I took all the money that I was allotted for school and spent it at nightclubs instead.My husband, Sam Jackson, and I were acting in Atlanta in some great theater companies, and I happened to be in a play called “The Best Man” with E.G. Marshall and Victor Jory. Joseph Papp was a friend of theirs and he came to the production and said to me, “Look, you need to get to New York. You can stay here and be a big fish in a small pond, or you can really try to swim.” That was my real encouragement to tell Sam, “We gotta go.” I thought that Joseph Papp had sent for me! When I got to New York, I showed up at the Public Theater and said, “I’m LaTanya Richardson, Mr. Papp asked that I come.” And they said, “ … what?” They thought it was so funny that they actually went to him, and he was like, “Who?” But then he came out and saw me and actually sent me to an audition that day, and I got the job. I grew up in Jersey City. Like any place outside of New York in the ’60s, it was homophobic — luckily there was the PATH train, and the first stop was Christopher Street. In high school, as a sophomore, I was brought by a friend to see the Cockettes, a queer hippie theater troupe from San Francisco, at the Anderson Theater, at Fourth Street and Second Avenue. It was astonishing and literally changed my life, this huge theatrical spectacle that included a naked guy painted gold. After that, I knew that I was going to get to New York as soon as I could. I was offered a scholarship to the American Ballet Theatre school, though to please my parents, I also enrolled at Jersey City State College. I think that lasted a semester. I didn’t move [to New York] until a couple years later. When I did, I continued my ballet training at Harkness House for two years, before quitting abruptly. Then I got a job at Sutter’s cafe on Greenwich Avenue and West 10th Street. Klaus Nomi was the cashier, and we would sing duets while we worked.I grew up in a housing project on Staten Island. I always wanted to be a writer, but I also had a phase where I wanted to be a dancer, so in high school, I would come into the city for ballet classes. I was too young to go to the clubs, but I’d do other things during the day. I’d go to the children’s zoo, or to the Donnell Library, or to the old MoMA, for which I feel quite nostalgic, because it seemed like a real museum and not an airport like it does now. Trips into the city were probably the highlight of my adolescence. I moved to Manhattan full-time when I became a student at Barnard. Senior year, I got a funky prewar apartment with a couple of roommates on Claremont Avenue. The cabdrivers would say, “Are you sure you want to go there? It’s a very bad neighborhood.” And I’d say, “But I have to go there — I live there.” Later, I moved to a studio at 107th Street and Broadway. The rent was $125 a month. I remember that very clearly because I was working as Bob Silvers’s assistant at the New York Review of Books, where my salary was $125 a week.Read more: New York City, 1981-1983: 36 Months That Changed the CultureNew Yorkers and Their ’80s Routines — Block by BlockThe Landmarks That Made New York a Cultural CapitalUptown or Downtown? In the Early ’80s, It Made All the DifferenceAdvertisement