AdvertisementSupported byBy Jon ParelesSOMERVILLE, Mass. — Most bands introduce a new album with a tour, a radio performance, maybe a fan-club party. Mouse on Mars, the brainy, playful, long-running, relentlessly inventive electronic-music duo from Berlin, had a different kind of rollout for its new album, “Dimensional People.” The music went public at an academic conference presented here by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology called “Dissolve Music.”The event took place in a converted warehouse space off campus. By day, scholars, D.J.s, musicians and promoters offered papers, discussions and five-minute “lightning talks,” covering topics like “Multiperspectivity in Sound” and how ocean waves resemble radio waves. Then the lecture hall became a dance floor, with disc jockeys from as far away as Tokyo. And on Thursday and Friday nights, Mouse on Mars — Jan St. Werner and Andi Toma — delivered multiperspectivity in action, blurring playback and performance as they unveiled “Dimensional People.”Dozens of speakers were installed overhead and all around, while “percussion robots” — drums and percussion instruments triggered by computer, with lights flashing as their sounds suddenly erupted — were scattered amid the spectators. Mouse on Mars was introducing its new album the way the duo had made it: in a state-of-the-art studio with sound coming from every direction. Software allowed the duo to pinpoint sounds in three-dimensional space, put those sounds in motion and even to separate and spread around overtones.Mr. St. Werner, the more voluble half of Mouse on Mars, was at home in academe. In 2016 and 2017, he was a visiting lecturer at M.I.T.’s program in Art, Culture and Technology, and he is currently a professor for interactive media/dynamic acoustics at the venerable Academy of Fine Arts Nuremberg. At both, he has worked primarily with visual artists. “We keep sound away from music as long as we can and see what else we can do with it,” he said over coffee on Friday.For the premiere Mr. St. Werner was behind a mixing console, where he could send tracks into motion. Mr. Toma, meanwhile, was wandering the dance floor, listening and appraising. Rhythms, both recorded and robotic, ricocheted all over; siren tones spiraled around; recorded voices and instruments could, and did, pop up anywhere in the room. The effect was at once analytical, clarifying every element, and immersive, even disorienting, in the best way. At Thursday’s event, Mr. Toma recalled the next day, “Emotionally, I had the feeling of being part of a live concert.”“Dimensional People” features a slew of collaborators from multiple spheres. Among them are Justin Vernon (a.k.a. Bon Iver), members of the National, the soul-music eccentric Swamp Dogg, the rapper Spank Rock, Zach Condon of Beirut, a Berlin-based Australian pop band called Parcels and the folk-pop songwriter Lisa Hannigan, along with orchestral horns, pedal steel guitar and chirping frogs recorded near a pond. “The way this album came together,” Mr. St. Werner said with a grin, “was like a conference.”Recording the album coalesced all of Mouse on Mars’s recent fascinations. The duo wrote orchestral music for the Chicago Symphony and other classical ensembles, drawing on traditional instruments and virtuosity. They also developed mobile apps to generate music. “We thought, maybe we should take the Kraftwerk idea of passing on the torch — to become software, to take the idea of what we do in software and give it away to the people,” Mr. St. Werner said. “But we had so much fun using the software ourselves that we just kept on working.”Mouse on Mars also wanted to generate computer-driven physical sound, teaming up with engineers to develop percussion robots that were robust enough to handle the demands of the music on the road. “We broke them all the time,” Mr. St. Werner noted.Then came what Mr. St. Werner called, citing a German phrase, “the drop that made the bucket overflow.” They were working in their studio in the Funkhaus in eastern Berlin, which used to house East Germany’s top government radio station, when the conductor and arranger André de Ridder knocked on the door. He was putting together a festival and had some musicians with him, including Mr. Vernon and Aaron and Bryce Dessner of the National. Many collaborations ensued, in Berlin and in an intensive phase at Mr. Vernon’s studio in Wisconsin.“We had two rules,” Mr. St. Werner said. “We wanted to stick to 145 beats per minute, so basically we had a rhythmic scheme. And we had a specific key. So we could record whatever we wanted, with whomever we wanted, and we could always move things around. It would always make sense. It would always fit.”They ended up with “a crazy mess of possibilities,” Mr. St. Werner said. “The information we had was so dense that we couldn’t really deal with the idea of that becoming a stereo record.”Technology to the rescue: A German speaker company, D&B Audiotecknik, was developing its “object-based mixing” setup of speakers and software to place sounds in space. In Swabia, in southern Germany, D&B had installed a demonstration system geared to club and concert producers; Mouse on Mars had other ideas. “Their thinking was, musicians create something, and we help to spatialize it,” Mr. St. Werner said. “And we’re like: ‘You have to start much earlier. You have to give this to musicians as an instrument.’”Mouse on Mars brought its work in progress to D&B’s setup, closely examining and reconfiguring the three-dimensional possibilities of the tracks on the way to the eventual stereo mix. “We came to a point where, ‘O.K., it all fits together,’” Mr. St. Werner said. “So the record starts with a woodblock being played by a robot, and it unfolds into this universe. We time-stretched the sound of the woodblock and zoomed into the partials and spectra of a single woodblock stroke — just a millisecond of sound — and opened it up and basically unfolded the whole piece from there.”The album free-associates its way through kinetic polyrhythms, Minimalist mediations, head-spinning auditory effects, a stark fiddle tune, passages of hip-hop and pop vocal harmonies, and surreal funk, and Swamp Dogg’s career reminiscences, among many other moments. Mouse on Mars is still deciding how to take it on tour. Mr. Toma contemplated a show without a stage, with live musicians and robots “spread among the people” instead.“Music is a strong anarchic force,” Mr. St. Werner said. “It’s probably our last bastion of anarchic wilderness, that trace of nature that keeps just growing, keeps crossbreeding, keeps immigrating and migrating and cross-fertilizing and expanding our perceptual apparatus. It’s also a great means for orientation and for bonding with other people. We don’t have to think about music, we don’t have to talk about the term. Eventually we’ll find it, or it will find us.”Advertisement