AdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeSometimes it seems as if we’re living under a constant barrage of heavy news. But it isn’t all bad out there. This feature is meant to send you into the weekend with a smile, or at least a lighter heart. Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:With a thunderous roar, a rocket called Falcon Heavy arced into the great unknown on Tuesday. The successful launch will give SpaceX — the company founded by Elon Musk, the billionaire entrepreneur — momentum to develop even larger rockets.A playful payload was delivered into space this time round: Mr. Musk’s cherry-red electric sports car.“It’s kind of silly and fun, but silly and fun things are important,” he said.Mr. Musk’s dream is to eventually send people to Mars. Read more »Our animal friends keep surprising us: Scientists have found that many are able to distinguish not only bigger from smaller, or more from less, but also two from four, four from 10, or 40 from 60. Even spiders and frogs have surprisingly sophisticated number sense.And chimpanzees’ numeric working memory is astonishing. Flash a scattering of numerals on a screen for just 210 milliseconds, then cover the numbers with white squares. A numerically schooled young chimp will touch the squares sequentially to indicate the ascending order of the hidden numbers.Don’t bother trying to do this yourself. You can’t. Read more »There are fierce debates about the best way to sweep the ice during the sport of curling. Quick and light, or hard and slow?Three Canadian entrepreneurs spent months pouring their creative energies into a high-tech device to hone curlers’ skills: the SmartBroom.The implement has four sensors in the head that show force in pounds and stroke rate in hertz. The curler can then experiment to see which technique works best.The broom retails for $3,000. Canadians get a discount. Read more »The plan would offer families up to 500,000 rupees, or about $7,800, of coverage a year. While that sum seems small by Western standards, it would be enough to cover the equivalent of five heart surgeries in India.“This is huge. It’s the biggest step the government has taken in 20 years in health care,” said Dr. Ajay Bakshi, the former chief executive of a hospital chain based in Bangalore. Read more »Early Facebook and Google employees have formed the Center for Humane Technology, which is trying to challenge the companies they once helped create.The group plans to unveil an ad campaign at 55,000 public schools in the United States, aiming to educate students, teachers and parents about depression that can come from heavy social media use.“This is an opportunity for me to correct a wrong,” said Roger McNamee, a member of the group and an early investor in Facebook. Read more »Researchers found the incredibly dense structures under foliage in northern Guatemala by shooting beams from planes into the tree canopy. The lasers helped create a 3-D picture that suggested an ancient society of such interconnectedness that even experienced archaeologists were surprised.“This world, which was lost to this jungle, is all of a sudden revealed in the data,” said Albert Yu-Min Lin, an engineer. “And what you thought was this massively understood, studied civilization is all of a sudden brand-new again.” Read more »“Black Panther” is a “jolt of a movie,” says Manohla Dargis, our film critic. Chadwick Boseman as T’challa, the titular superhero, leads a scene-stealing cast that includes Michael B. Jordan, Lupita Nyong’o and Andy Serkis.“Race matters in ‘Black Panther’ and it matters deeply,” Ms. Dargis writes, “not in terms of Manichaean good guys and bad, but as a means to explore larger human concerns about the past, the present, and the uses and abuses of power. That alone makes it more thoughtful about how the world works than a lot of mainstream movies, even if those ideas are interspersed with plenty of comic-book posturing.” Read more »What would you like to see here? We want to hear from you. Email us at goodnews@nytimes.com.Follow Des Shoe on Twitter: @DesNYT.Advertisement