AdvertisementSupported byBy Victoria GomelskyIn the luxury watch trade, video’s the thing.From slickly produced segments that take viewers on vicarious journeys through Switzerland to single-take product reviews live-streamed from trade shows like the Baselworld fair this week, videos aimed at watch buyers and fans have flooded the internet — and their popularity is skyrocketing.On the Hodinkee YouTube channel, for example, total video plays increased from nearly three million in 2015 to more than 7.6 million in 2017. WatchBox Studios, a video operation founded by the Philadelphia-based watch retailer Govberg, boasts even more impressive statistics: Combined views for the company’s three YouTube channels now average 1.1 million per month, according to the owner, Danny Govberg.The growth mirrors what’s happening in the wider world, with technology specialists describing a post-text future in which audio and video dominate. “The younger consumer is looking for motion,” said David Bates, managing director of ATK PLN, a Dallas-based video content agency. “They expect it.”And just like the entertainment industry — where content from traditional movie studios and TV networks is being outpaced by the likes of Netflix and Amazon Studios — the expensive productions offered by many of Switzerland’s biggest brands have largely failed to find audiences.For example: Hublot’s YouTube channel has more than 20,000 subscribers and a recent Floyd Mayweather piece drew almost 7,500 views, but many of its videos have fewer than 500 views. And a recent Girard-Perregaux video, a computer-generated look inside a timepiece that’s similar to many other brand videos online, hasn’t reached 600 views.Videos by editors and retailers published to YouTube, Vimeo and their own platforms have been filling the void.(It’s interesting to note that the most powerful brand in the industry, Rolex, introduced its YouTube channel in 2012 — a year before Hodinkee’s debut there. Yet both have almost the same total views: 18 million.)Here, a closer look at the watch universe’s most distinctive and sophisticated video creators.Widely considered the watch trade’s most influential website, Hodinkee earned that reputation in part through its commitment to creating professional video content with a cinematic bent. “Anything from three-minute service journalism pieces to the more in-depth ‘Talking Watches’ episodes, where there’s more personality, more story and often a celebrity attached,” said Will Holloway, Hodinkee’s director of content and senior digital producer.Mr. Holloway met Benjamin Clymer, the site’s founder, in 2010 while they were both students at Columbia University’s journalism program; three years later, he became the site’s third employee. Over the last year, Mr. Holloway, who’d long operated as a one-man band, hired two associate producers.In January Mr. Holloway and one of those new associate producers accompanied six Hodinkee editors to Geneva for the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie, better known as S.I.H.H. There, they captured daily highlights of the watch fair in a series of three- to four-minute videos called “First Take,” posted on Vimeo and YouTube.“We want to be ahead of the news cycle there, so those videos are a little less polished, but they do serve a purpose,” Mr. Holloway said. “On the menu of video options, they are sort of appetizers to what we offer.”The main dishes, so to speak, are large scale, multipart travel shows, like “The Road Through Britain,” a five-part series from 2016 in which Mr. Holloway and a Hodinkee editor spent 12 days exploring British watchmaking, including a stop at Roger W. Smith’s remote workshop on the Isle of Man.Last year, Mr. Holloway said, the operation created a record 62 videos, including live broadcasts; previously it had averaged about 30 a year. But its most popular video, with 1.3 million views, remains the first “Talking Watches” episode, a nine-minute clip from 2013 featuring John Mayer riffing on his favorite timepieces, Rolex chief among them (“A GMT is one of the world’s greatest apps,” the singer-songwriter said).“This is escapism,” Mr. Holloway said. “Get away from the drudgery of the daily news cycle and be immersed in something, and if you say ‘Oh, wow’ a couple times, we’re doing a pretty good job.”TheWatches.tv founder Marc André Deschoux was running an audiovisual production company in Geneva when he noticed the films that watch companies had him producing were languishing in cyberspace.“They would cost hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs and I thought, ‘Who is looking at these videos?’ ” Mr. Deschoux said. “What was put into productions was disproportionate to their visibility.”In 2011, he introduced the website TheWatches.tv to show “the industry with a bit less ceremonial approach,” he said. But it took a couple years for the site to gain traction outside of watch-centric Geneva — in part, he said, because the chief executives he used on-camera in his early videos “were not very good at communicating.”That realization prompted Mr. Deschoux himself to step in front of the camera. Wearing his trademark thick-rimmed spectacles, he approaches the watch business — whether it’s a four-minute interview with a collector at S.I.H.H. or a 19-minute clip highlighting the history of Patek Philippe — as an exuberant neophyte. “There are enough forums and websites with a geeky approach,” he said. “We don’t go too much into the details. The benchmark I use: If my mom understands my videos, then I’m fine.”Mr. Deschoux declined to specify the site’s financial details but said support comes from several sources: brand sponsorships (although, he stressed, “We always keep full editorial control of what we do and say”); a small amount of advertising revenue from YouTube; proceeds from an online store and a new patron program, which invites viewers to pledge monthly payments.“I really love this idea that it is our viewers that help us finance our activity, it really materializes the community aspect” of the operation, Mr. Deschoux said. To continue in that vein, he said he would hold a news conference at Baselworld on Saturday to announce a travel program for watch lovers that he will begin this spring.With a minimum of one new video per week, the site averages about 500,000 views per month, according to Mr. Deschoux. Its most popular video — with almost 1.4 million views — was published in 2013 and features an in-depth look at Jaeger-LeCoultre’s Gyrotourbillon family of timepieces.“To be able to generate 10,000 views talking about watchmaking or a watch, it’s already pretty significant,” Mr. Deschoux said.Ariel Adams posted his first video, a supplement to a written watch review, shortly after A Blog to Watch went live in 2007. “Because there were certain things you had to see,” Mr. Adams, the blog’s founder, said, “like what a watch looks like when you’re wearing it, or how it plays with the light.”Since then, Mr. Adams has struggled to reconcile the economics of producing professional-style videos in an industry besieged by D.I.Y. makers who can attract thousands of viewers with provocative pieces made in their bedrooms.“Good video is expensive,” he said. “Lighting, multiple cameras, audio, a director, a script. We’re talking about thousands of dollars per video. But then you have the ultra-novice guy that does everything himself — these guys are 100 percent motivated by their own personal success.”Even as A Blog to Watch’s video strategy continues to evolve, Mr. Adams insisted that out of all the watch websites, “our videos feel most pro-consumer,” he said. “It’s really about trying to keep it real.”So real, in fact, that on a recent clip from S.I.H.H., Mr. Adams and a fellow editor, David Bredan, joked about their continuing search for an audio engineer, epitomizing their videos’ conversational style. Mr. Adams acknowledged that these sorts of asides can frustrate viewers who are part of what he described as “the-internet-owes-me-an-answer generation.”“They want the shortest, fastest video possible,” he said.The straight talk is to continue this week at Baselworld, where A Blog to Watch has a delegation of four writer-photographers and “one person who’s new and is entirely about video, which is an investment for us,” Mr. Adams said.“I’d like to have a lot more programming,” he added. “The question is what and how to pay for it?”Unlike the other video makers described in this article, Watchonista, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based website founded in 2009, eschews talking heads on its clips, opting instead to focus on timepieces — at factories, on wrists and in lifestyle montages.“We’re perfectly comfortable being behind the camera,” said Josh Shanks, managing editor of Watchonista’s U.S. operation. “We have unprecedented access to these brands and pieces. At a moment’s notice, we can be in the Vallée de Joux and shoot them right off the assembly line.” (The valley is considered the heart of high-end Swiss watchmaking, with Audemars Piguet, Jaeger-LeCoultre, Breuget and others based there.)Wachonista entered the video arena in 2012, when it teamed with Tudor to promote the brand’s Black Bay Heritage collection. Since then, Watchonista’s efforts have mostly been editorial in nature, though many of its videos retain the look and feel of sponsored content. “That is one criticism we get,” Mr. Shanks said.Relying on an in-house video team, Watchonista specializes in behind-the-scenes films, documenting the making of rare timepieces, including the DR01 Twelve First by Dominique Renaud.Lately, however, the site has given its video coverage a more lifestyle-oriented focus. Last fall, for example, the Watchonista co-founder Alexander Friedman and a video team followed a group of social media influencers that had been invited to Rome for Bulgari’s two-day B-Dinner, excursion. Cue the Fiats and Instagram-worthy homages to the Eternal City.“The idea was to do something more experiential,” Mr. Shanks said. “There’s such an oversaturation of watches, we can look beyond them.”In February 2016, Mr. Govberg left a meeting with a creative agency in Miami with one takeaway: “It’s all about video,” he said.Two years and $600,000 later, six sales associates-cum-broadcast journalists now work in the sophisticated in-house studio installed above his central Philadelphia store. Mr. Govberg describes the video production team, WatchBox Studios, as “the CNBC of watches” — and an important part of the WatchBox website that Mr. Govberg and his partners introduced last year to change online sales of pre-owned luxury watches.The Govberg/WatchBox team produces about 50 reviews and six shows for its three YouTube channels every week (offerings include “Watch Science” and “Watch Girls A–Z”). The company also is gearing up to produce a WatchBox Live channel, where viewers can buy timepieces, as well as a dedicated IP channel for smart-TV viewers.Since the first channel went live five years ago, the shows have generated more than 20 million views, 12 million of them in the past 12 months, according to Mr. Govberg.One of WatchBox Studios’ best-known assets is Tim Mosso, a former United States Navy press officer-turned-watch expert, who delivers earnest, hands-on, sales-driven reviews of new products in his “This Week in Watches” show.After a Roger Dubuis presentation at S.I.H.H., Mr. Mosso hunched over his iPhone, affixed to a tripod, and rattled off the specs of the watchmaker’s Excalibur Aventador S in pink gold. A smattering of editors watched him, marveling at his single-take delivery.“In retail, nobody is doing what we’re doing,” Mr. Govberg said. “Our shows help educate. But the most important factor: They also entertain.”Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook (Styles and Modern Love), Twitter (Styles, Fashion and Weddings) and Instagram.Advertisement