AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkEven though many schools are on spring break, we still received hundreds of comments from all over the United States this week, and we enjoyed reading remarks on the nine Learning Network writing prompts featured in this post — especially those from Chicago; Pittsburgh; Rochester, Wash.; Dallas; Providence, R.I.; and Saco, Me.As always, thank you for offering your insightful opinions and sharing your personal experiences. It’s especially heartening to see that some of you are taking time to read and then reply to other students’ comments after posting your own. Keep it up!Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted._________Our Student Opinion prompt “Have You Ever Felt Pressured to Betray Your Beliefs?” asked students about Benjamin Glaze, 19, who, while auditioning for “American Idol,” was asked whether he’d ever been kissed. When he said “no” and explained why, Mr. Glaze was kissed by Katy Perry, one of the show’s judges. Many students strongly disapproved of Ms. Perry’s actions, saying Mr. Glaze’s religious beliefs were disrespected. In the eyes of many who commented, the kiss was harassment.Faith Beaulieu from Saco, Me., said simply:In this case is wasn’t a pressured betray of beliefs, it was a forced one.Francesca Altunyay from Wilmington, N.C., thinks Ms. Perry should be held accountable:I have lost any respect I might have had for Katy Perry, and I’m not sure that I even had any. The whole debacle was embarrassing and inappropriate. The 19 year old Benjamin Glaze, who received the unwanted kiss, expressed that he was “uncomfortable” with the kiss as it was his first, and had expected his first kiss to be a bit more meaningful. He also said he felt that he “did not feel sexually harassed,” but did Katy Perry know that he wouldn’t when she planted that physical manifestation of romantic intimacy on an individual almost 15 years younger than her? No, she didn’t, and the truth is that she probably didn’t care to consider what he might feel when she made the decision to kiss him. Her behavior can be reflected in the sleazy Hollywood sexual offenders that we all viciously exposed and vilified (and rightfully so, I am in no way defending them), yet somehow we give Katy Perry a pass? She should be held accountable for sexual misdemeanors regardless of her gender, as should all women. She used her position of power as a reputable judge and artist to force an unsolicited romantic/sexual act on a teenager she’d never even met before, which is harassment and should be treated as such.Jaliyah from winnetonka said Mr. Glaze was not treated with respect:Honestly I think his gender has to do something with all this happening too. For men if something like this happened no one would care or they would just care less, because they think he is a man he should like being kissed by women especially if she’s a star, and if he doesn’t like it he’s a cry baby or he should just defend himself. If this was a girl, and a man who kissed her without consent the world would freak out, but for guys they’re told to just be a man about it so what they believe or their thoughts are ignored or joked about even by other guys. This guy’s morals were disrespected because he is expected to just suck it up and be a man about it. What she did was creepy and although she meant no harm I think his morals should have been respected and that you shouldn’t be kissing random people anyway.Hadley Todd from Wilmington, N.C., has not ever been pressured to betray personal beliefs:I honestly cannot remember a time where I have been pressured to betray my beliefs, but I have definitely pressured another to do so unintentionally. I usually stick to the opinions I have and others often feel intimidated by this and end up agreeing with what I have to say, probably because so many people don’t have a mind of their own if I’m being honest. They’re so afraid of being rejected by others for disagreeing with them or putting up a fight that they just cave in as if that will make them likable. I would rather somebody actually have the brain to disagree with me because it would show that they are an individual that can speak for themselves.Denislav Kasaivanov from Wilmington, N.C., thinks the media overreacted to the incident:One measure of how strongly you believe in your opinions is how likely you are to stray away from them when pressured. Personally, I haven’t betrayed my beliefs because I would like to say that my opinions are formed through what I, myself, have experienced in my so-far 16 year life. I value sticking to your word greatly, causing me to severely dislike those whom change their opinions in order to fit into the ‘norm’ or to not be ‘singled-out’ for their viewpoints. At the end of the day, I think that you shouldn’t care about what other people think because you should live life the way you want to live it, and not take everything too seriously.Aside from that, I stand somewhat in the middle of the Benjamin Glaze situation. Should she have went up there and given a kiss without asking? No. Should it have been blown up to this proportion in media outlets and have all this hate directed at Katy Perry? No.At the end of the day, Mr. Glaze did say he wanted to ‘Save his kiss for his first relationship’, and Perry should have asked and acknowledged that, as a matter of respect. But what this boils down is into another public-relations catastrophe between TV media and the public; not aiding in the already construed skepticism of mainstream media.Ben C. from North Carolina does not impose his will on others:I have been pressured to betray my beliefs a number of times, but I do not impose my will upon others. What Katy Perry did was unacceptable, and it probably messed with his performance in paragraph 11, as he delivered a lackluster performance because he was disappointed that his first kiss was not with someone he loved.Mary Wells from Wilmington, N.C., found herself shocked:When hearing the news how Katy Perry abused Mr. Glaze’s beliefs, I was shocked. It was not right for her to have tricked him and forced him to kiss her when he wanted to wait for the right person. The article states how he did not want to kiss her because he was raised from a conservative family and wanted his first kiss to be special. He wanted his first kiss to be with someone special and Katy Perry disrespected his religious beliefs.I admit I have been pressured to change my beliefs because of other people. I remember in elementary school my friends were different than the ones in preschool and expected more from me. I was expected to practice cheerleading and spend recess talking and sitting rather than running around, swinging from the monkey bars, which was an activity I enjoyed. One year later I realized that I did not want to be someone’s personal cheerleader and I went back to playing on the playground. I do not let others tell me what to do because I have learned that pressure makes me feel guilty and overall not happy.perla elias from caruthers said feeling pressure to do something is not welcome:I have been pressured to do something and it is not a good feeling. I have been pressured when I was playing softball in middle school and I was the last one up to bat and they all counted on me. Everyone was quiet and they were all staring at me and just were telling me that I could do it but I just felt really pressured because if I didn’t hit the ball we were going to lose the game. At the end of the game we had won and I had hit the ball and I brought my teammates home but I had so much pressure on me.Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington, N.C., said women and men must be held to the same standards:In order for movements like #MeToo to be successful, it cannot be subjective. I am a huge proponent of feminism and I strive to spread awareness and equality anyway I can, but the definition of feminism, in my opinion, is that men and women are equal. It is contradictory to hold this belief and think that it is okay for Katy Perry to kiss a teenage boy, just because she is a woman. She should be held to the same standard that we would hold a 33-year old man to if he were to kiss an unwilling teenage girl. Her actions put an innocent teenager in a highly uncomfortable position, one that is common for young women: A higher powered person preying on defenseless subordinates. Of course Benjamin didn’t say he wouldn’t kiss Perry - it is hard enough to tell somebody that holds your future in their hands “no” when you aren’t on national television.It is fair to say that Benjamin was pressured into forsaking his beliefs, but so are all of the feminist, or even semi feminists out there saying things like Benjamin was lucky, or that what Katy did was cute. This issue spreads its wings outside of this one (horrible) incident, all the way to the feminist movement as a whole. If we ever want true equality these are the times that we have to stick to our guns and make sure what we say and believe about situations outside the norm of the feminist issue column remain consistent with what we would think if the roles were reversed.Kayla Renee from Pennsylvania has never felt pressure to betray her beliefs:I have never felt pressured to betray my religion. When I hear this question I start to think about Muslims feeling pressured to eat pork or Christians feeling pressured to have sex before marriage. To answer this question I would say I, as a Christian, have never felt pressured to betray my beliefs or religion.Amy Blanchard in Saco, Me., said the kiss was not consensual:I don’t believe what Katy Perry did was right, specifically because if the genders were swapped, there would be massive backlash. I understand why she did it in the moment, she probably thought he had never kissed someone because he never had the opportunity or something, and Katy “gave him that opportunity.” But as Benjamin stated, if Katy had asked him, he would’ve said no. Therefore, there was not consent, and we make a big deal about consent in society when men act without it, and women should be pressured to get consent too.Liz from Maine thinks the kiss was an assault:This is sexual assault. It might not be as extreme as other stories, but it still stands. Guys are held to a different standard than girls when it comes to sex, think about how much outrage would surface if the roles were switched. Imagine if a 30 y/o guy kissed a 19 y/o girl, it would be madness in both real life and on social media! But, when a guy is assaulted, people are proud of him and “jealous”. They are told to “man up” and that “you are so lucky!” The whole thing just leaves a bad taste in my mouth._________Our Student Opinion prompt “Are We Being Bad Citizens If We Don’t Keep Up With the News? was very popular, with views on both sides straightforwardly expressed.Athena Brenner from Wilmington, N.C, applauds Erik Hagerman’s retreat to solitude:If I’m being fairly honest, I applaud Mr. Hagerman. Is it responsible? No, not exactly. From the choice he’s made, he isn’t exactly a “good citizen” by American standards; seeing as though he isn’t speaking out and making sure he is carrying out his civic duties. But can we really blame him? This man survived through the constant news reports on Black children and adults wrongfully being killed by our own policemen on a monthly basis. He observed his TV screen helplessly as a bar in Florida was shot down by one hostile man simply because of the fact that it was meant for people who are attracted to the same sex. He lived in an America where he watched a grown man yell childishly about his personal 1st world problems, gloat to other men like him about how he takes pride in assaulting women, then proceed to win the American presidency. The list goes on and on. Erik Hagerman did something for himself; he ran away from the issue and stopped paying attention. This does make him selfish and irresponsible, but who acted wrongfully first? He saw the President being irresponsible with his power, the police being irresponsible with their guns, and the citizens being irresponsible with their rights. He saw America being reckless and impulsive, and he chose to no longer be a part of it. Unlike everyone else’s actions, this selfish act made him happier. So though I don’t necessarily agree with him, I condone his abrasive choices. Cheers to a life in peaceful solitude!Sophia McNamara from Chicago thinks it is a childish move:I believe that Mr. Hagerman’s decision to ignore all news was highly irresponsible and silly. As citizens of the United States, we are supposed to know what is going on in the world, and help our government deal with problems. Our government was created so we the citizens could interact and change what we wanted, but if we don’t know what is going on the government could take over. Also, if we don’t pay attention to news, we can miss major events that could threaten our life. For example, there could be a mass shooting or a war that we have to fight in, but we would have no idea that these events were happening.Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., likes the attempt at a balanced life:In this day in age, everybody needs to have time to themselves, without a constant overflow of information, just like Mr. Hagerman. Having time to think, even if it is just for a few minutes, is crucial to being well balanced. I applaud him for taking on such a large undertaking, and trying to look within himself to find satisfaction rather than at the tumultuous string of current events.Tara Samtmann from Wilmington, N.C., said a basic understanding of the news is important:We live in a society of information overload and news is one area that seems to get the most attention. As a high school student, it makes a lot of sense to understand what is happening around the U.S., to help prompt discussion in the classroom or at home. Adults should have a basic understanding of what is happening around the world, since it could impact decisions you make in your life. So, I feel all citizens should make an effort to keep up with the news. But, do we need to be inundated by TV, tweets, online articles, constantly, 24 hours per day? Do we need to be experts on every topic and hold a strong opinion on each one? No way! As Mr. Hagerman said, “I had been paying attention to the news for decades, and I never did anything with it.” There is much truth in that statement, because we rarely make major personal decisions based on what you read or hear on the news. Plus, do we really need to keep hearing about the same issue over and over for days on end? But we should be aware of the issue. His Blockade of all news is a bit extreme, but I applaud him for his efforts. Instead of blockading the news, each person must develop their own way of getting the news they need. Our individual challenge is to determine the best source for news which meets our personal situation and develop the discipline to not partake in the 24 hour a day news frenzy. Develop your own method for getting the news, so that you can be a good citizen and be aware of the issues and take appropriate actions if needed.Josh P from Washington said he can relate, but doesn’t support ignoring the news:Being in high school, I can relate to the feeling of wanted to stay away from the drama that I don’t understand or approve of. But I think that totally ignoring everything that’s going on around you, and in your government, is a bit too much. It is important to know what’s going on around, so you can prepare yourself for what might come. On top of it all, just because he doesn’t support the leader of the country, doesn’t mean that he should avoid everything that’s going on within his country, making him a bad citizen because he isn’t supporting or having any concern for his country.Kyler C from Rochester, Wash., thinks following the news is responsible:In my opinion Mr. Hagerman is taking the 2016 election way too far. I understand being upset about your candidate not winning, and I would also understand if he had followed through with his original plan of only protesting a few days; however a year is unbelievable. The media is used for more than just government news, granted the media does seem to focus on that subject quite often, even then he could just turn the channel if he is watching the news on TV, whenever a political subject appears. I feel that it is kind of our responsibility as citizens of the United States to be up to date on America’s news along with global news, global warming for example, if people are up to date on the current issues, they could do their part to help solve these issues. Therefore, Mr. Hagerman should stop his ”silent protest” and become more aware of what’s going on in the world.John Doe from Louisiana thinks the answer is yes:The simple answer is yes, if you don’t keep up with the news then you are a bad citizen. When you isolate yourself from your own country you shouldn’t be considered a citizen. Everyone should know what is going on in the nation because it’s their nation. When you don’t know what’s happening then it’s the same as not caring for you country._________We asked students how they related to the graph in our Picture Prompt “A Scary Time.” Here’s what they had to say.Katharine from Rhode Island interpreted it this way:I think this image is trying to explain that when one is in a stressful situation, it’s best to have positive interactions that reinforce a sense of belonging and being cared for. In this case, it’s getting a hug. When someone is in a bad place, they usually don’t want to hear “I told you so,” hence the smaller need for facts and lectures. I agree with this message to an extent. Mainly because hugs or affirmation in general, can only do so much and to function many people need to understand the consequences of their actions or need to be motivated to do so.Aminah I. from Providence, R.I., discussed the importance of physical touch:In my opinion, I think the image is relaying the importance of physical contact during times of intense stress. Cortisol, a hormone responsible for stress, is lowered considerably through hugs. Although most people try to put on a tough act of not needing physical contact with others, almost everyone feels better with hugs. 11th grade is arguably the hardest year for a high school student, with all the AP Exams and SATs/ACTs. I know that whenever I cuddle my cat, I become relieved and de-stressed almost immediately.Patrick Iammatteo from Wilmington, N.C., finds comfort in a different way:This image portrays the idea that people going through hard times need love and support, rather than facts and lecture. While this is true to some extent, love and hugs don’t fix your problems. I relate to this, but in sort of a different way. When I go through tough times in my life, I cope by listening to music. The words spoken and the music played are my version of hugs and support. To listen to someone writing about similar problems lets you know you aren’t alone, and that there is hope in the future. This version of sympathy resonates with me stronger than any other. I also agree with the fact that LECTURE only makes things worse. This is why the graph shows an upside down bar. Nobody wants to be yelled at constantly when they are in a distressed state. It can only hurt.Sydney Durner from Wilmington, N.C., shared how she handles scary times:The image portrays how in scary times, either with a test coming up or dealing with a loss, the most important and beneficial thing we need is comfort. Being lectured or yelled at when anxiety is high never helps to ease the worry. As the article mentions, with the downfall of the current stock market, some people are finding themselves scared. The best way to overcome this is having someone who will listen to you, provide you with comfort, listen to your worries and provide kind comments to ease your stress. Once you are able to release some stress and be more rational, then, you can start reworking and thinking about how to handle the situation.I agree with the message the image portrays. Whenever I’m going through a tough time, I don’t want to be lectured about how I’m doing something wrong or how to fix the problem. The first thing I want is someone to just listen to what I have to say and affirm me, that everything will be okay. After I’m calmed down, then I can start figuring out how to approach the situation and a rational way to deal with it, but I need that emotional support at the beginning. You can’t go wrong with a hug._________Our Student Opinion question “What Activities Make You Feel Most Alive?” brought some surprising answers.Beck RT from Massachusetts enjoys singing:Singing has been something that I personally have been very passionate about since I can remember. Performing is something that I have become passionate about in recent years and these two activities combine into something that gives me a rush of adrenaline. The feel of performing in front of people with a few of my friends makes the experience blissful and makes me feel powerful. Singing and performing makes me feel more alive and gives me a joy that nothing else can give me, which is why I continue to do so as often as I can.Emily Ball from Wilmington, N.C., said nature is the thing:I can definitely see why Mr. Doba felt the way he did about the kayaking. There is something about being one with nature that takes you back to your roots. With feeling wild and free, there is almost always a sense of ferality as well, because most of the times when you are your most wild and free, you are doing things in nature. When reading about his excursion, I immediately was overcome with great admiration for the man, at 71, who crossed the Atlantic Ocean via kayak. I then read about all of the harsh conditions that he endured, and all of the things that happened to him physically, such as almost losing all of his nails and having his clothes become so salty that he couldn’t wear them anymore. The one thing that makes me feel alive is swimming. I swim 6 days a week, for a team, but when I swim I feel alive. I believe I feel this way because when I am swimming, I have time to myself, time to think, this makes me feel alive. I hope that when I am Mr. Doba’s age, I do things to push myself and stay active. I would like to hike, ski and hopefully still swim when I am 71.Nick Hargrove from Wilmington, N.C., says risk provides a nice thrill:I feel like the two main ways to make you feel most alive are to either do something competitively where you give it your all or put your life on the line. Some people may say well how is kayaking fun or thrilling? Well Doba is both putting his life on the line as well as competitively trying to break records such as greatest number of days paddles by a Polish man in a single year. Doba would even go as far as to kayak in the Baltic Sea while the Communist Party declared it illegal. When Doba’s phone stopped working he pressed the help button on his spot device. When they came to rescue him instead of hopping aboard and going to shore to get his phone fixed he refused to leave his kayak and requested for his phone to be fixed. If you are still unable to understand the thrill, just think of a roller coaster. While riding a roller coaster you know that if something goes wrong you may die. It is this risk that gives the thrill.Annie Herring from Dallas hopes to row and hike into her old age:Ask any of my friends: the first, well, nine months after every summer vacation are spent telling them about the beauty of dirt under my fingernails, how much fun sleeping in a tent is, and the thrill of reaching a summit, among hundreds of other details. I understand Mr. Doba’s feeling while he kayaks; there is a certain je ne sais quoi about pushing your body to reach a certain goal. While reading this article, I was overwhelmed by reverence for this man who dedicated his life to seemingly impossible goals. For example, when Doba proposed kayaking across the North Atlantic, his trip was deemed impossible, and even deadly. However, Doba ventured to prove them wrong for the sake of his objective to cross the Atlantic in the southern, middle, and northern routes. This intense goal setting is something that I see reflected in my teammates on my crew team; they push themselves to their limits on the daily in order to reach their goals. Sometimes barely able to exit their boats, they beam after winning a race or PRing on a piece. Another kind of ecstasy that I observe is when I am in the backcountry with my friends. I hope that when I am Mr. Doba’s age I can continue to row and hike; hopefully still with friends by my side!Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., said devotion to a passion is where life comes from:When I am standing in the front of the classroom, seeing the numerous eyes of my peers and dead silence, I feel most alive. To have the attention of every person in the room, for a topic that I care about immensely, that for me is like crossing the Atlantic. For that brief moment that I was pitching my ideas for our school newspaper in my journalism class, I felt that I had accomplished something. Of course, all students were required to share their story ideas, but I felt like I had been Mr. Doba during the last few miles of his journey. To do something that you are most passionate about is where life comes from. Anybody can live, but it takes devotion to your passions in order to be fully alive.And Francesca Altunyay from Wilmington, N.C., is inspired by Aleksander Doba to overcome her personal daily struggles:Mr. Doba uses a Polish word, katorga, to describe the suffering he endures while completing excruciating kayaking trips repurposed as determination and an “existential thrill.” I can see that, having been at sea for 110 days without face-to-face social interaction and having to weather through nature’s toughest obstacles, he would look “ecstatic and feral … intrinsically wild and free.” His kayaking trip must have reminded him, shockingly, of his undeniable state of being. As someone who faces a constant and daily war with mental health, sometimes I struggle to truly feel alive. The burden of mental illness can make it difficult to find passion, or motivation, or even to muster energy to get out of bed. There are, undoubtedly, things that make me happy. Simple things make me feel alive: playing music, running, or just laughing with my friends. Despite these things, I feel like I have an existential crisis every day. There is one thing I’m confident about: I want to live, and experience life to its fullest. It’s my dream to do something arduous and taxing yet gratifyingly so, something that can remind me of my presence in the universe; something exhilarating like backpack across a continent, or bike cross-country, or climb a mountain. Those are all difficult to obtain as a full-time student and teenager, but they’re 100% on my bucket list. Mr. Doba is certainly an incredible man, and he has inspired me to do something crazy yet existentially fulfilling._________With dozens of different responses to “What Makes Someone a Great Leader?,” commenters proved there are myriad ways to move and inspire others — whether you are a man or a woman.Katie M. from Pittsburgh defined a leader this way:There are many characteristics of being a great leader. When I think of a great leader, they should be honest. Being honest and gaining people’s trust is important. You have to set good examples for others to follow, so, having their trust does come in handy. A great leader should be someone who is respectful, intelligent, strong, and confident. People turn to leaders for help and someone they can talk to without a problem. Leaders should be respectful towards their peers and loyal those they are leading. A great leader means you are confident in your beliefs and you take risks to help your ‘followers’. A leader who is intelligent in what they are leading others to is important. You want your peers to be able to have confidence in you and not doubt you. Leaders should have an open, positive mind. A leader should stand out and be known. People should be able to look up to their leaders. Everyone has the ability to be a great leader. It’s just a matter of if you’re willing to put in the effort.Abbey Skinner from Danvers, Mass., said that a great leader is a great person:In my opinion, a great leader is someone who puts others needs before their own needs. A great leader needs to have power with their words; they need to be able to motivate someone else to do something that they never thought they could do. Great leaders may not be the best at what they do, but they can create other people who are. Great leaders are hard to find because so many people would rather see themselves succeed than the people who they are “leading”.Men and women can absolutely be equally effective leaders. Being a great leader is not about your appearance; it is about how you act and what your morals are. Anybody can be a great leader, but many times men are more outspoken and arrogant than women and many people perceive outspoken and confident individuals as leaders since they are usually the first to speak. This, however, has nothing to do with being a true leader. A great leader does not have to say the most; they just have to say enough to motivate people.Morgan B. from Massachusetts discovered from her own experience that there are many ways to lead:The stereotypical leader is someone who possess the qualities of being decisive, independent, courageous, often times loud, and has a bold presence. While I agree that some leaders possess these qualities, I think that every leader has their own unique character. A leader is something who stands out, who takes the extra step to be noticed — even if it not intentional. Going to an overnight camp for the past nine summers, I learned to become a more independent and courageous person. These skills that I gained I thought made me more mature, but many people told me that they made me a better leader. This was surprising because I did not consider myself to be a leader. I thought leaders are supposed to be loud — I’m quiet, leaders are supposed to be decisive — I am very indecisive, and I do not have a bold presence — I just blend in with everyone else. However, I then realized that is what made me a leader: my differences. Sometimes we do not recognize leaders because they are not what and who we expect them to be. Leaders are often overlooked by others because of how they look, from their gender, and from their personality. Opinions are often form by someone’s first impression, and although first impressions are important we have to get to know others before labeling or characterizing others. Everyone has the ability to be a leader whether they realize it or not. Sometimes we just need a little help finding our voice to channel the inner leader hiding inside.Many students also commented on the reasons women are less likely to be perceived as leadership material, and why recognizing these stereotypes is important.Clea Matt from Danvers, Mass., wrote about a lack of representation:Sadly, I am not surprised people imagine leaders as men. In our society we still see many more men in leadership positions, a great example of this is the fact that America has had only male presidents. This looming fact and the lack of representation of females in powerful positions creates a stigma. In all of the drawings of leaders people believed that strong leaders were good listeners, decisive, caring, and well educated. Women and men can both be equally strong in any of these and all qualities. In my own experience as a leader I have not been taken less seriously because I am a woman but it was harder for me to get to where I am now. Many people believe that women and especially teenage girls are afraid to speak in large groups and handle the attention that comes with needing to be a leader. Girls need to put in more work to get those opportunities that boys have simply handed to them. Being a leader means being a good listener but also following you gut and representing a group in the best way you know how. This has nothing to do with your gender, being a good leader is all about having strong leadership skills. Both women and men can have these skills but women have to work harder to get the opportunities to show off these skills.Anna C. from Wilmington, N.C., pointed to the media’s portrayal of women:Great leaders are intelligent, competent, empathetic, organized, and assertive. He or she cares about what their employees think, respects their coworkers, and takes the time to listen to their worries or suggestions. Given these qualities, I see no reason why women and men can’t be equally effective leaders, for these characteristics are taught and learned, not born into. We should focus on teaching young girls to be less passive and obedient and more confident and assertive, as well as showing more children female leaders along with their male counterparts.Besides this, I think the medias we’re constantly exposed to should put more thought into the content they’re creating, as many stereotypes and sexist beliefs can be enforced by what they broadcast. A common trend I’ve noticed on TV shows is that female leaders are often depicted as bossy and rude, and the main characters gripe about her and make derogatory remarks. This scene (and other sketches/jokes like it) are often brief and mindless, but as other shows repeat the same material, the stereotype is reinforced in the minds of the viewers. This isn’t the sole reason women aren’t seen as leader-like/good leaders, but it does contribute to the spread and resilience of such stereotypes. The good news is, we have been improving. More women are taking an interest to political and economic leadership positions, and more people are noticing this. One day, it will never be doubted that women can be leaders.Ryan Brooks from Danvers, Mass., gave an example from her own life:A great leader possesses clear visions, honesty, humility, courage, integrity, trust, et cetera. Although it is significantly more difficult for women to assume leadership positions, women still have the capability of becoming just as good of a leader as a man. Leadership is defined by the leader’s positive attributes, not their gender. A woman can be just as hardworking, courageous, honest, and trustworthy as men. In my personal experience, my leadership has not been doubted in academic classes, only physical classes such as physical education. Because I have earned the reputation of being intelligent based on my grades, I have never had my intelligence or leadership in group projects questioned. However, in gym class, my leadership is questioned constantly. I am one out of only three females in my class. Because I am a female, the males in my class assume I am not as athletic or not as talented at sports as them. Therefore, the other girls and I are always picked last for games. Although I do not object or try to take on a role of leadership, I always do my best to prove the boys wrong.And Essence Bradford from WHS concisely explained why addressing this issue matters:In my opinion, a leader can be a female or a male. A leader’s greatness isn’t defined by their gender, it’s defined by their qualities and actions. Gender shouldn’t really matter as long as they meet all of the standards. To me, a great leader is someone you can look up to, someone that always does the right thing, is intelligent, a good listener, honest, has good communication skills, sets good examples, and is just a good person overall. Typically, when people think of leaders I feel like they think of males no matter the situation. It’s important to recognize these stereotypes because some women may have great leadership skills, and be overlooked because they aren’t male. I feel like that’s wrong because females can do just as much as males can in my opinion._________Students weighed in with their opinions about technology etiquette on our Picture Prompt “Phone Manners.”Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., ranted about teenagers’ inappropriate use of technology in social situations:I hate it when people go on their phones in social situations, whether it is during dinner, at a party or during a conversation. It is rude, and extremely inconsiderate. Whenever I am talking to a friend, (teenagers are notorious for being tech addicted), and they are looking down at their phone, I feel like they do not care about what I have to say. Obviously, whatever they are doing on their device is more important than what I have to say.If you have ever looked at those photos of teenagers sitting next to each other, all looking down at their screens and laugh, just take a deeper look about what is happening. A new generation is growing up, being technologically adept and socially inept, generally speaking. Smart phones should not take the place of real interactions, which have become ever more valuable in a tech addicted world.Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts is equally annoyed by such behavior:I think that there are many cases in which people overuse their phones to a rude extent. One major red flag for inappropriate phone usage is when out at a restaurant. If you go out to eat, you should be enjoying the experience. It is disrespectful to the staff of the restaurant to be focusing upon a cell phone instead of the food and service that they are providing. Also, if you are talking on a phone, you may be disrupting other people within a close vicinity. Even more appalling is the treatment of who you are spending time with. There is not much worse than seeing people out to eat and having one person on their phone completely ignoring the other. All too often, people focus on their phone instead of the people that they are spending time with. While cell phones and new technology are great assets in many situations, when they take away from personal interactions they become a problem. People should continue to appreciate the people around them instead of being sucked into their cell phones and distracted in order to use phones appropriately.And Kaley Nesselroade from Wilmington, N.C., sometimes gets so bothered that she wishes phones were never invented:For me, I tend to completely check out of the conversation when someone is focusing more attention on their phone than to what’s happening in the real world. When people are more interested in who they’re snap chatting at the moment or who just added a new Instagram post than hanging out with their friends, it shows a new level of rudeness. A lot of times when I’m hanging out with a group of people, or even just one person, I look around and everyone is sitting in silence with their nose in their phones. It bugs me to the core and sometimes I wish I lived in the time when phones weren’t as accessible. I’m sure people would get to know one another better and form real life connections. As the article states, “Etiquette, manners, body language, the way we respond, interact and even look is changing,” and sadly it’s true. The days when people actually held eye contact and were 100% present in a conversation are slowly slipping away as society starts to put our phones first and the people right in front of us second.Sarah Welford from Danvers, Mass., was one of the few commenters who thought phones could help, instead of hinder, social interactions:We all are familiar with the phone-obsessed-people-who-are-ruining-human-interaction trope. Especially as a teenager, it seems that every time I go out with friends people are always glued to their phones, checking Instagram, and sending snaps. However, phone use in conversation is not inherently evil. Phones are devices that are meant to enhance communication, and are mostly used to connect with others rather than ignore them. Obviously, you should not check your texts while listening to your friend recount the death of their beloved dog or any other such topic requiring emotional support. But often in conversation, we check our phones to look up relevant information, contact others in order to include them, or to share pictures of our latest exploits with the people we are with. While there are times when it is disrespectful to use phones when another human being is talking to you, that is not always the case, and most of us are good at using our discretion.Zac Gill from Wilmington, N.C., learned proper phone manners from his family:Ever since I was first given a phone, it has been a clearly stated rule that there would be no phone use at anytime during dinner. Whether we’re at a fine restaurant or just dining in at home, the only contact my mom allows is real face-to-face interaction. This strict cellphone ruling has been ingrained in me at this point, keeping me off my phone in most interactions. Being able to have a disconnect from my phone has allowed me to see so many other people completely negate any social interaction just because they care too much about their own cellphones. Researchers at the University of Michigan have suggested that “empathy levels have plummeted while narcissism is skyrocketing.” This makes total sense. Our generation is being taught that it is okay to ignore and belittle whomever they are with. These teens and young adults needs to learn that whatever it is that’s on their phones is minuscule in comparison to the interactions they could be having in the real-life world.Josh Failla from Wilmington, N.C., suggested that learning to put down our phones and embrace the awkwardness is the key to building better relationships:I’ll admit, from time to time I find myself looking at my phone instead of interacting with the group I’m in. I am not proud of it, and I may sound like a hypocrite commenting on this topic, but I feel like we should all put our phones down when we are with other people. I feel like most of us look at our phones when we are hanging out with people because we sometimes feel awkward talking others. Instead of being social and talking with others, we resort to looking at our phones to make ourselves look busy. We even will look at our phones with nothing on the screen to avoid the awkward social interaction. In the article, a statistic states that 75% of Americans believe that smartphones don’t impact the group setting, but I feel like it has the biggest impact. Some of life’s greatest moments happen when you are hanging out with others, and if all you are doing is looking at your phone, you might as well just be sitting at home by yourself. We should all put down our phones when we are hanging out with others. Maybe if you do this, you may learn something brand new about a person, and you may become better friends with that person. You can not build relationships behind a phone screen._________“Have You Ever Experienced Food Insecurity?” prompted some deep thinking on the part of commenters, who spoke movingly:Olivia Lain from Wrightsville Beach, N.C., thinks no children should go hungry:In my county, one in four children are food insecure. We have free and reduced lunch programs and in some schools children are given backpacks with food for break times, but I can’t imagine how they get through spring break with maybe not much more than that backpack of food. I feel like the part of the article about being “keenly aware of their own economic disadvantage” over spring break is really true, because while I live in a city near the beach, there are kids right here that have never seen the ocean. I frequently go to the beach with my family and friends, so to hear about my classmates going all the time if I’d never been would be torturous, not to mention the more extravagant vacations to the Bahamas, Turks and Caicos, Disney World, and elsewhere. I definitely think all colleges should keep their cafeterias open over spring break for those who would be food insecure otherwise, or even for those who aren’t able to go home like the author. I feel like public elementary, middle, and high schools should adopt this policy as well, though I realize the reality of transporting these kids to cafeterias might not be feasible for those outside of walking distance to their schools. This could be remedied if school buses were still to operate and bring children to their school cafeterias over spring break. There’s really no reason that children should go hungry in America, so I hope that this changes with access to food being more accessible in the near future.Kevin from Vancouver, British Columbia, thinks schools need to do more:I felt that universities should be doing more to provide the basic necessities to their students. However, just like most boarding schools, they leave their students to fend for themselves. The school should at least provide a little bit of support as the tuition is not cheap. In addition, in the article, it states that one of the students rely on microwaveable food for his meals which I doubt is healthy so the schools are impacting the student’s health. The schools should also allow students to stay on campus during spring break for free instead of charging them a fee. This gives students who aren’t traveling some extra cash to spend which takes economic pressure off them. The students are given the choice to use the kitchen to cook their food which is cheaper than buying food. Overall I feel that schools are doing a pretty bad job at keeping students fed.Tyler Rouse Wilmington N.C., agrees with the new changes to accommodate all students:Some of my friends get lunch from the cafeteria. They always complain about how terrible the food is. They have things like pizza, french fries, and hamburgers every week. Whenever I can, I try to give them something from my lunch. I agree with the paragraph which states not having enough food can affect your school performance. I believe this to be true. If you are constantly hungry and always thinking about food during tests, that would be terrible. I couldn’t imagine trying to concentrate in school while being hungry. The data from the article surprised me that 1 in 4 college campuses open their cafeterias during breaks. Honestly, I thought there wouldn’t be that many. As mentioned in the article, most students travel off campus for spring break and other events. Now that I think about it colleges really should have their cafeterias operating for anyone who is staying on campus.Janelly from Providence, R.I., has empathy for those who have experienced food insecurity:I personally have not experienced food insecurity, nor do I know of anyone who openly spoke about their own experience. The students mentioned in the article should never have to feel different from the other students who can afford to leave campus on spring break. Not knowing where your next meal would be coming from can definitely make you feel “keenly aware” of your own economic disadvantage, which these closed cafeterias do. If I saw my peers leaving campus to go on vacation or to go home and I knew I couldn’t afford it, I would automatically feel bad about myself. With schools like Columbia and Harvard that changed their spring break-cafeteria policy, progress was made. Of course, more steps in the right direction should be made other than a change of policy and free lunch for all grade levels. More schools should continue to take into consideration the student’s advantages and disadvantages and cooperate to benefit all students, not just a handful._________The Picture Prompt “Cast of Characters” asked students what story is told in the image above.Parker Bolles from Wilmington N.C., thought of the Seven Deadly Sins:While looking at this image I can’t help but think of the seven deadly sins with lust, gluttony, and pride placed to obviously in the foreground. More subtly in the foreground however, I noticed the crowd, a strange cast of characters themselves. I believed this was to represent how a person views characters in a story, how one may raise themselves up thinking, “at least I’m not like them” while only interpreting the grossest of exaggerations. To be terrible, but not that terrible, ironically engaging in pride. As I read the article, I understood it was intended to portray the evil and their tragedies, “Dost thou hear, Hal? Never call a true piece of gold a counterfeit: Thou art essentially mad without seeming so.” Also, and more lightheartedly, it intended to portray a message of living life for what it is worth, “But to counterfeit dying when a man thereby liveth is to be no counterfeit but the true and perfect image of life indeed.” This was interesting to me since the author, Bloom, takes heavy inspiration from Shakespeare, whose tragedies don’t show much mercy. I agree with the writer of the article, Winterson, that Bloom’s writing is a sort of breath of fresh air to language.Neil Phillips from Wilmington, N.C., cringed at the image:I would describe this picture as messy, silly, comic, outrageous, but full of life (see where I’m getting). I think it relates to how Harold Bloom presents Falstaff. Bloom rebirths Shakespeare’s concept of to live for versus to die for. Even so in a way that brings liveliness to the reader or follower, which can relate to the crowd that looks alive and active as the drama takes place in front of them in the picture. I admit my first impressions on this image was a cringe. My head started to hurt as I tried to capture and focus on the drama that takes place on the frame. But I also believe that the illustrator did to me what bloom does to his students. Giving me first an uncomfortable feeling and then bringing me to a glimpse of interpretation thanks to some help from the article.Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington, N.C., created a short story:Ah! What a blasted vision of society and the music is just like a fine brandy! If I still had a say, I would give the accordionist a finer dress and at least a broad audience, I mean can they even see how awestruck the queen is. Of course, the king has other needs to tend with a withering stare. Just seeing him caress the sweatband of that plump drunkard sends a nasty growl through my pale gut. They laugh and drink as love dies, of how a noble-lady could ever fall in love with a black peasant. Blast those two to all seven layers of the inferno, for love is love! That is where I must mention this sad sap, still mourning over the skull of his mistress. I know for she is here next to me, but her voice is as silent as days since her passage. Wait, blimey! A pixie, why I have always thought of them to be no more than old wives tales. Oh, well the way he continues to eye the drunkard’s wine, I assume he intends to spike it for his sins. Bah! What do I know, I’m simply a ghost behind the scenes, just choosing to lament somewhere more reflective._________Our Picture Prompt "Falling Gold” asked students to guess what caused bars of gold alloy to fall onto a runway in Russia, or to remember the most beautiful or unusual thing they ever saw falling from the sky.Max Bergman from Wilmington, N.C., said, to him, sunshine is as valuable as gold:Gold falling from the sky? Cmon that’s ridiculous! Well in Yakutsk, where temperatures can plummet to minus 85 degrees Fahrenheit, it happened. Yes, precious gold fell from the sky, and not just a couple ounces of it. More than 3.4 tons of gold was recovered from the runway, however this NYT article did state that, “They turned out to be doré, a semi-pure alloy composed of gold and silver, not pure gold, but close enough”. Besides that’s still a lot of gold and gold is worth a lot. In fact one ton of pure gold alone is worth a little over 64 million dollars. That’s enough money to buy 60 of the highest class sports cars on the market. Although I wish gold would fall from the sky in my town, I know it’s very unlikely. I live in a beach town, so I am blessed to see beautiful sunshine falling from the sky most everyday. I know sunshine isn’t as valuable as gold, but in my mind it is.Neil Phillips from Wilmington, N.C., has questions:The most interesting thing I have ever seen come from the sky may just be anything frozen. It’s pretty hard to recall because considering where I live, having the terrain frozen like it is in Yakutsk, or seeing any precipitation other than rain or sometimes ice is very rare. This article brought a positive imagery, I could see a short time span of gold blocks raining out of the sky in what was an epic moment for the ages, only to later turn out to be an accident that fell out of a plane, which left me loaded with questions. Where was a plane taking that much doré? Why so much? Who put that much a burden on a plane? I guess the moral of this story is how the irony can make someone’s day (like it made mine, with the imagination), but also ruin it like it did those who sought an opportunity to grab riches that fell from the sky.Brianna Browning from Wilmington, N.C., recalled a childhood memory:Had to be a plane. Maybe the pilot sneezed and hit a button. I wish I was there to cash in on some free gold. The strangest thing I’ve seen falling from the sky would have to be a waterspout. I was out in the boat roughly 30 miles offshore of OIB. The next thing I know is my dad hollerin’ ayyyy there’s a waterspout bout a mile out. So I turn and saw this water tornado that I thought was gonna suck us right up! Now that I look back on this I laugh at how I thought spinning water would eat me.savannah brittain from Wilmington guessed correctly:It is hard to believe that 3.4 tons of gold fell straight from the sky in Yakutsk. I think it was some sort of aircraft that just happened to drop loads of it on the ground. Now I can’t really tell where this picture was taken place but in the background that definitely doesn’t look like a normal road. It is a lot wider so it could possibly be an airport or something and a plane dropped the gold as they were flying in the sky. Come to find out, after reading the article it was an airport! I can’t imagine the people’s faces when the shiny material had fallen to the ground. It’s unbelievable! The most alluring thing that I have EVER seen in the sky is..... rainbows!!! When you look at a rainbow it just makes you realize how beautiful our world is and it just makes you want to smile due to the fascinating colorful arch. The garish colors gives you this feeling inside that relaxes your heart and makes you say.....”wow”. I don’t think that there is anything else (that I have seen) that is as beautiful or pleasing than a rainbow._________Advertisement