AdvertisementSupported byCurrent Events ConversationBy The Learning NetworkHappy New Year, and welcome back — even if for many the first week of school has been disrupted by what some meteorologists classified as a “bomb cyclone.”As always, we were informed, impressed and entertained by student comments on our writing prompts from around the country and the globe, but this week we want to especially acknowledge the students of Danvers High School in Massachusetts and Hanover Horton High School in Michigan for their excellent contributions.Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear just as they were originally submitted.Our most popular writing prompt over the last two weeks was “Could You Stop Shopping for an Entire Year?” Many students thought that would be impossible.Christian HHHS from Hanover Horton loves buying — for himself and others — way too much:I couldn’t stop shopping for the rest of the year. The reason why I couldn’t stop is because I love buying new stuff for my family and I. I like to get new clothes quite often because I get sick of wearing the same stuff and I want to mix it up a little but I wouldn’t be able to do that if I stopped shopping. I also like buying new video games for my PlayStation and new equipment for baseball. I couldn’t buy anything for my family for Christmas which wouldn’t feel right because I buy them gifts every year. So no, I couldn’t stop shopping for the rest of the year.Mary Keohan from Duxbury, Mass., says fashion is her form of self-expression:Yes, it is easy to say most teenage girls are “obsessed with clothes!” but clothing has always meant more to than just the excitement of purchasing something new and fun. Clothing ever since I was a little girl has been the best way for me to express myself. If suddenly I couldn’t express in which the form of art I believe is fashion is in my life. I would lose my identity.Fashion is what I want to do for the rest of my life in one way or another I am determined to make a living out how I express myself every single day. Minimising other clutter in my life like cutting back on buying unnecessary items like nail polish. Or another perfume when I already have twenty is something I would be more lenient to give up for a year. It’s actually something I have been trying to do more of in the past six months, and I’ve got to say I enjoy the way I feel mentally after doing so.Polaris Hall from Danvers High School, Mass., would find not being able to buy gifts intolerable:I think that everyone could benefit from something like this. Everyone’s different, but I know that I spend more money than necessary - especially on my friends. I frequently shop for little things to give as gifts when I could honestly just spend more time with the person and show my love that way instead, but when I see something that reminds me of a loved one I want to get it! My brain gets excited and starts cheering “that’s something my friend likes!” and “if I get it for her she’ll know I was thinking of her!” or “that would make him so happy!” While I love getting new things for myself as well, giving up shopping would be immensely hard for me because I want more than anything to surround the people I care about with things that are beautiful and make them happy.But Morgan B., also from Massachusetts, thought not shopping for a year could be a helpful exercise:I believe that “need” is one of the most incorrectly used words in society today. There are many things that we can live without, but our minds trick us into believing that we need them when most of the time we just want it. I believe Ms. Patchett’s chapstick example refers to how society has become blind and lazy to the opportunities that we have. We take advantage of the fact that we can have five chapsticks and if we can’t find it or don’t like the one of many that we have, we can just go out and buy a new one.Sometimes all we need to do is take some extra time and simplify our lives so that we can focus on other more important things happening in our lives. While not shopping for a year would be hard I believe that I would learn a lot about myself and I would be more aware of the world around me.Anthe Dalkouras from Danvers made a connection to a short story that helped her better understand the difference between “needs” and “wants”:This question reminded me of a story that my classmates and I read in English class called “Needs” by Thomas Sowell. Sowell highlights that these “needs” are truly just wants and we could essentially live without them. This connects to Ms. Patchett’s story because it made me realize all of the unnecessary items I have in my room that I believed I was in dire need of when I bought them, like new a shirt or shoes. All of these things are just wants in life that do not help me survive. This seems like an interesting challenge for me to take part in because it would help me uncover all of the things that I have in my house that I have forgotten about and realize that I never needed them.Judy HHHS from Michigan has found other ways to practice self-control:I understand where she is coming from, wanting to no longer take things for granted and save money but I also don’t believe it’s a sin to want things or to buy things that aren’t necessary. I believe it’s possible to find a way to have self control without limiting yourself to never spending money outside of groceries. For me, the most difficult aspect would be not buying trinkets, things that I definitely don’t need but I think are super cool. The only thing I have given up for a certain period of time would have to do with food, I give up most candy, ice cream, and sweets when I’m “in season” during sports. This worked well for me, and I learned that not eating junk food in excess all the time makes it that much better when you do.Edwyn HHHS from School agreed:You earn all that money, most of it goes to things you need anyway. Why not indulge yourself in your wants every once in awhile. This is coming from someone who still has money from his summer job. It isn’t difficult to save up money and use it on what you want to later. Just learn patience. And if you really wanted to give to the poor then save and give to the poor. Having money and doing nothing with it seems like a waste.ZachL. HHHS from Hanover realized that he’s already been taking Ms. Patchett’s advice for years:After reading the article, I completely agree with Ms. Patchett. My parents have taught me the skills to know whats wanted and needed and to use everything you already have instead of just going out and buying more. My parents have taught me to be smart with my money and to not buy things I don’t need, especially if I already have them. I really only go out and buy new things if I need them. I buy toothpaste when its completely gone, I buy gas when I need it and I buy clothes when mine get ripped out or stained. I pretty much have been doing what Mr. Patcheet has done for my whole life._________Our popular prompt “Are You Hopeful About the Future?” brought in a mix of positive and negative answers. Below are a few we especially liked.ZachL. from HHHS Hanover said one person can make a difference:To deal with turmoil for me, I do many things. Kindness is one way. Donating or buying gifts for others has always made me a happier person. Global issuing around the world should be resolved in helping. Everyone in the world pitching in. Of course, not forcing anyone to, but just out of pure kindness. Donating money or helping clean up something like the oil spill that happened in 2010. The line that stands out to me most in the article is “we all want to live a happy life.” This stands out to me because it is true, but many people are not doing anything to make other people’s lives better, or even their own.Judy HHHS from Michigan found the article inspirational:I believe everyone can have an impact on the world in a positive way. Even if one kind act makes an impact on the life of another, that impact can be felt by other people for generations to come. The idea of a compassionate kindness and empathy is one that resonates with me in a very personal way. From a young age it has been instilled upon me that having empathy and compassion for others is very important, it is important to attempt to understand others and what they are going through. Being kind is important because you never know what can happen next, and therefore you should live your life treating others as you wish to be treated. I think that these ideas should be applied to global issues. Through dialogue and diplomacy we can save more lives and learn to understand other countries and what they are going through.I greatly enjoyed reading this article. It was inspirational in a lot of ways and I agree with a lot of the ideas presented that agreed with kindness and compassion.Javier from HHHS Michigan has hope, and goals for the future:I am very hopeful for the future. In fact, I am much more hopeful of the future that I am of the present. Even though I do not enjoy school there is something that I need from it, and that thing is a high school diploma. I would like to enlist into the Marine Corps, but to enlist in any branch you require a high school diploma. That is understandable, the military doesn’t have the time to mess around with stupid people. The future however unpredictable can be conquered with just a little bit of planning. With planning it is easy to deal with the future. However, “Man plans, and God laughs.” Even if something goes wrong stick with the plan, just work it through. Make the future yours.Emily Mcgovern from Massachusetts believes our actions are cumulative:Many people are excited to grow up and do these crazy things that you don’t think you can do as a teen. But that isn’t really true, you should strive for your dreams everyday cause you never know what might happen . Something crazy can happen if you put the time and effort you need to be successful . I can wait for the future cause all the things i do that are amazing may all gather up when i am older and can make a huge difference_________We asked students, “How Young Is Too Young to Use Social Media?” and received passionate responses, most grounded in personal experience. Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington, N.C., believes that any age was “too young” for social media:In world where social media is integrated so deeply inside our everyday culture, I am not naive enough to think that there is anyway to stop kids from being exposed to it at earlier and earlier ages. I firmly believe that social media gives a warped view of life- one of perfect lighting, makeup, and vacations- that can lead to body image issues and feelings of inferiority. It also contains multiple safety issues such as cyber-bullying and traps and posers.So how young is too young? I think we are all too young. I don’t think anybody can scroll through everybody’s seemingly perfect lives day in and day out and never feel bad about about their own life. And I am sure if there are people like that out there, that they are the ones resisting the trend and living a social media free life. It breaks my heart to think of ten year olds having their childhood cut short because of social media. Let kids be kids. Encourage them to make real-life friends. To be a good person with strong values and confidence. To play outside. To not get caught up in what others think of them. To thrive.Noah HHHS from Michigan thought young children should stay off social media altogether:In my opinion a person should at least be thirteen before getting some sort of social media account. By using social media at a younger age kids may grow up to be less sociable and probably less likely to connect with others. I really only have two friends that I feel I can discuss personal issues with for example. On the other hand this does teach children how to use social media at younger age, and more likely with parent supervision. Based on my experience with Facebook, it by far has a much more negative impact on kids than it can a positive one. I personally would not trust Facebook with a child’s private information, or anyone’s private information. However a child is much more vulnerable because they probably are not well equipped to understand what privacy is at their age.Judy HHHS from Michigan also thought apps like Facebook’s Messenger Kids would only do more harm than good:I think any age under twelve is too young to use social media. When I was younger I spent a lot of time outside, playing with my friends, and just being a kid. I had a lot of experiences that I wouldn’t have had if I had spent all those days inside on a phone or another electronic device. The benefits of introducing technology at a younger age contribute to easily accessible information, being able to research things and use technology to benefit your education. I don’t think it interferes with family life but I think it could interfere in a child’s relationships with their friends, forcing them into more screen time than real contact with real people in the real world.Jessica Pelletier from Massachusetts suggested parents could protect younger users by setting limits:Children should be limited as to how much time they use social media and what sites they are going to. Parents should set limits on both. If parents do this then it can help children connect with others safely. Facebook’s Messenger Kid seems like it is a safe app however that still does not address how much time kids are spending using it. Again, another area where parents have to maintain parental controls on such things like time limits. Facebook is using this app to bring in a younger audience which could get them hooked at a much younger age, and for a lot more years to come. For this reason I believe Facebook is acting in its own best interest.Madison Capezzuto from Danvers, Mass., saw from personal experience how effective these limits could be:Being a typical teenager, I have accounts for many social media websites and tend to be on them for most of the day, effecting the different interactions I have with many different people. I can embarrassingly say that I am a part of this social media epidemic.Scrolling through my Instagram feed, I see kids as young as ten actively using the website unaware of the potential dangers these platforms can cause to someone at that age. The ongoing joke with kids on social media is the simple question, “Where are your parents?” Although this comment is comical, it has a lot of truth behind it. My parents didn’t even allow me to have an Instagram account until I was 13, even after I got it my mom had my password so that she was able to access it. At the time I found it to be a violation of my privacy as I was unaware of all the negatives that come with social media. Now older and in full control of my accounts, I have come to realize that social media with children can be dangerous as there are many people in the world that unfortunately get caught up in the hate.Zach H HHHS from Hanover Horton gave an anecdote to highlight the benefits a social media account could provide children:About a year ago, my sister and her “incredibly creepy online friend” were planning to meet in Florida to attend a event they both desperately wanted to go. My father went with my sister to the event and also to see her “incredibly creepy online friend.” Well, her “incredibly creepy online friend” turned out not to be a “incredibly creepy online friend” and instead became my sister’s best friend who like the same things and around the same age.Social Media is a great platform to use. It can connect people around the world and give a broader sense of our world a new outlook on how we communicate to each other. But, a child needs to communicate outside of a phone screen. More awkward conversations during the holiday seasons are becoming more and more common as grandparents attempt to spark up a conversation only to get a three or four word response. Also, as my sister ended up meeting her new friend, some aren’t as lucky. Their are those “incredibly creepy online friends” we have out in the world and it’s important for the child and the parent to keep in touch of who they talk to online and what they are discussing. I also believe that being thirteen or over should be the recommended time to get a social media account.And Hannah Kelsey from Massachusetts admitted the internet could be a scary place:When I was an elementary age kid, social media did not completely rule our society in the way that it does now. Facebook had just reached worldwide popularity by the time I was already “old enough” to use it, but for children right now that is not the case. My 6 year old cousin is constantly using her ipod touch and is always watching internet videos or playing online games. She even uses Snapchat—of course she has restrictions and only is friends with me and another cousin on Snapchat—but I still wonder: is she too young?On the one hand she is not doing anything wrong or anything inappropriate, but social media can be a very scary place. It is often filled with hate, cyber bullying, racist, sexist, or homophobic posts, and sometimes is even the place of sexual harassment. Are these all things that parents would want their children exposed to? Maybe there is no right or wrong age to start using social media. Maybe the more important thing is that all kids are taught how to be safe online from a very young age. The world is consumed by social media and nearly everyone uses it in some shape or form, children included, so instead of setting up restrictions, kids should learn how to be smart and safe on social media._________Our Student Opinion prompt, “Do You Believe in Online Conspiracy Theories?” resulted in some interesting, and entertaining, student thoughts. Here are our favorites:Payton James from Massachusetts worries conspiracy theories create paranoia:As much as I’d like to deny it, some internet conspiracies have made me question my entire existence.The one that genuinely makes sense to me is the butterfly effect. This theory explains how small things being altered in the past can change how we’re living right now. It poses a “what if” question. What if my dad stayed in Connecticut instead of moving here at a young age? They wouldn’t have ever met or even have known of each other’s existence. Therefore, I wouldn’t be here right now.Myself and many other people likely become invested with conspiracy theories because they give complex things an answer, despite the fact that it may not be completely accurate. It’s human nature to love organization, and conspiracies fill the gaps of confusion with absurd answers, but an answer is an answer. Hearing all of these outrageous theories has made being paranoid impossible almost. There’s nothing I can do about the fact that aliens are coming down from space and messing with us. I cannot change the fact that the entire Kardashian family is possibly involved with the Illuminati. These theories simply make me question things.Meghan Miraglia from Massachusetts acknowledges conspiracy theories offer answers, albeit wrong ones:I don’t believe in any online conspiracy theories, yet, the amount of times I have found myself falling into a Wikipedia rabbit hole, clicking on dozens of little blue hyperlinks, is rather concerning.For a week, my heart was galloping around in my ribcage, following things so ridiculous that they just might be true.We like conspiracy theories because they offer answers - albeit, some outrageous ones. But, they are answers nonetheless. Conspiracy theories are a shot in the dark, a fingers-crossed guess where humanity finds itself pouring over their screens watching Shane Dawson provide another possibility about the thing that eats up their thoughts.But, as for the argument that the internet has stirred up more paranoia, well, that’s just absolutely false. Paranoia and anxiety has gnawed up the human world for ages. Even before the internet, there were worries. The Internet simply provides a place to pour out all of the nausea, fear, and jitters - a place where minds that fly in a million different directions can intertwine with other minds that fly in a million other directions. Conspiracies unite people.Conspiracies have made me more paranoid. They make me wary, untrusting, and frankly, a little nauseous. The Internet hasn’t created those feelings in me, though. The Internet has only highlighted them and brought them out of the shadows.Hee Yun Chung from California is bothered for several reasons:Whenever I scope around the political side of the internet, I always see conspiracy theories that often challenge my faith in humanity. Some examples of online conspiracy theories would be the flat-earthers and the entire InfoWars website. The theories presented by these kinds of people can be dangerous when information can be passed around the world in minutes through the internet. If a large portion of the population were to believe in false theories put forward by incredible people, social order can be put in jeopardy by a single lie. I think people should use the internet with skepticism to whatever they see. If someone sees a story online, they should do research before jumping to conclusions.I think that most people make conspiracy theories in order to make a profit. One example would be Alex Jones’ InfoWars. Alex Jones goes onto his show and rails against the globalists while accusing the government/Illuminati (or someone) by making frogs gay through tap water. However, during his shows, he constantly advertises his own products as the only way to protect yourself from an apocalypse that is not coming.Jiwoo Song from California wonders how conspiracy theorists live with the day-to-day fear:To be fair, I would love to live in a world where lizard people are real, Obama is somehow the Antichrist, the government is controlling our lives with TV, and so on. It sure must be a exciting world.Just kidding. I wonder sometimes how all the conspiracy believers even manage their lives in this much fear. Their world must be so frightening, with all this terror existing outside their homes and all. With the lizard person next to the door, and all these theories reaching such people through various questionable “news” sources, I mean. I highly disapprove of the conspiracy theory that involves the “Sandy Hook” hoax. Some of these conspiracists have been known to make threatening calls to already-grieving parents. I think to that extent, paranoia over conspiracy is very, very pernicious.Amanda Donahue from Massachusetts likes how they force us to wonder and question:I don’t believe in conspiracy theories, but I do believe they are a wonderful thing. Despite the possibility of most, if not all, being untrue, they lead people to wonder. They doubt the common belief.The “Mandela Effect” is a very popular theory that over time small things change due to the effect of black holes. One “effect” from this theory is thought to be shown in the book series “The Berenstain Bears.” While mostly everyone seems to remember pronouncing and reading the name as “Berenstein,” it is believed that the Mandela Effect has caused a change in the name to “Berenstain.” A crazy theory to explain something so small, but I think there’s a deeper reason that so many believe this to be true. People use this theory to stray from the idea that their belief is incorrect. They had believed something was one way, when it was really another way, so instead of admitting their false belief, they are rather using the theory of a “black hole” to explain why their belief is “not wrong.” While they entertain me to read and look into, I have yet to find a conspiracy theory that I believe. Or, maybe I have yet to find something I need to cover with a conspiracy theory._________Nearly every commenter for our Picture Prompt “Women in Movies” disagreed that movies dominated by male actors should be remade with female casts. We have selected some of the most convincing, below.Ava Lanning from Danvers, Mass., said remakes are unnecessary in general:I strongly disagree because directors choose their cast based on how well a role is acted. Right? So why do people think that women need to prove that they can act just as well as guys? I think this is a little unfair. Do some people think that war-based movies that have a strong male cast need to be remade with a female cast? Also, since when do women think that it is “unfair” for movies to have a male-dominated role? Nevermind the fact that most remakes of movies are far worse than the original.This is an example of political correctness gone too far. As being a huge fan of attractive male actors, (which many women are) I think that movie ratings of new versions or remakes would go down. Also, I simply would not watch a movie that has been remade with female actresses’ just to prove a point. What point is being proven? That women can act just as well as men? I think all of this political correctness is turning into a bigger deal than anyone would’ve ever expected.Ted from New York thinks the remakes are simply generated to make money:I think this movie and others like it are cynical cash-grabs and have very little to do with political correctness. Studios are more willing to bet on proven winners (the Ocean’s franchise, Ghostbusters) than to take a risk on something new. I see the “all female cast” trend as a gimmick to justify the remakes. There are plenty of incredible “women-centered” movies out there. Kelly Reichardt’s Certain Women, Paul Verhoeven’s Elle, and Mia Hansen-Løve’s Things to Come are recent examples.Anandeep from Pennsylvania looked to the future of movie-making for more roles for women:I don’t believe that they should remake movies that include a male-dominated cast, but rather focus on the upcoming movies that could cast more roles for women. There are so many movies yet to be made, these movies could try and set aside a good number of roles for women who are interested in playing the parts.Brooke Myers from King of Prussia, Pa., suggested one movie that might benefit from a remake:If I had to choose a movie that I would change is “Pirates of The Caribbean” because even though there are girl roles, it would be cool if a girl could play Captain Jack Sparrow, the lead._________We occasionally use editorial cartoons and invite students to interpret them in our Picture Prompt series. Commenters felt Tax Bill had a lot to say.Rex Hardy from Wilmington, N.C., focused hard on the details:This picture clearly shows Donald Trump giving big tax cuts to wealthier families, but it’s the fine details that exaggerate the message of the cartoon.The people holding Santa Claus Trump have on ragged worn out clothes, but more ragged at the bottom of the totem pole. The man at the bottom is also shaking a lot more than the ones he is carrying. I think these two details show that Trump, despite his inauthentic care for these people, cares least for the poor, homeless man on the bottom. The middle represents the lower class and lastly, the top represents the middle class. The upper class is in a nice house, receiving gifts as usual. The scene also seems to be done undercover, like nobody is supposed to be watching. It’s night time, there is a guard keeping watch, and likewise to what happens on Christmas, Santa isn’t supposed to be seen. Lastly, not regarding the message of the cartoon, it seems ironic that the rich person he is helping has a Spanish-style house.Jared Casey from United States offered even more observations:In this illustration, several things are immediately apparent: the fact that President Trump - being dressed as Santa Claus - is delivering the gift of a tax cut to an affluent looking man while on the backs of the lower classes, which are straining under the weight of the other three men burdening their increasingly tired, beaten shoulders.Other elements in this illustration are more interesting, though, such as the ladder that Trump used to get to the top. After more thoughtful observation, perhaps this ladder is symbolic of the fact that Trump and the Tax Cut circumvented the opinions of the lower classes. Had this ladder not been present in the illustration, the viewer would be left to assume that the climbing of Trump to the upper-class man was a joint-effort between Trump and the lower classes, effectively rewarding a deserving individual. Rather than depict the Tax Cut in this manner, the illustrator instead chose to place a ladder behind the tower of lower classes to show that this was a forced operation that had little room for personal choice among the lower classes, and was instead a direct deal between Trump and the upper class citizen. It is very well possible that this ladder makes the difference between this cartoon being a commentary on the political processes of the United States, or this illustration simply mocking the Tax Cut and it’s seemingly ‘crooked’ motivations.Allison Zafiri from Massachusetts summed up the message:The President of the United States is depicted to be hand delivering the gift to an unphased, well kept white man. In addition, the President is seen to be reaching the achievement of passing along the tax cut with the help of literally standing on the shoulders and piggybacking off of hard worker (as shown in their tattered clothing and business attire). In the cartoon the one person that is the least wealthiest (at the bottom) has to carry all the “weight” and on top is average middle class citizen.Prashamsha Rayamajhi from Danvers, Mass., said the tax gift to the rich comes at the expense of the common man:This image is conveying what we were all thinking in the first place: that the new tax bill benefits the rich at the expense of the poor.The new tax bill is a “gift” to the rich but a burden to the middle class, the working person. It reminds me of the cartoon made before the french revolution of the third estate: how the second and the first estate (clergy + nobles) were being held up on the backs of the third estate (everyone else). This just goes to show how the new tax bill is just a way for the rich to get richer while the middle class continues to shrink. The rich, who is depicted to be inside a warm house with a cigar, is getting a present from what looks like President Trump in a Santa costume, being held up by people in normal clothes out in the cold, as the “suits” (or the establishment) looks on.I agree with the point of view of this cartoon. I think that the new tax bill just goes to show how close America is from crossing democracy into an oligarchy. Poor people, middle class people, the people who cannot afford to be taxed more: they’re the ones that are being asked to increase their taxes, whereas the rich, who can afford taxes, are getting a tax break. It’s a big fat present to them at the expense of the common man. That just makes no sense to me.Ann Nguyen from Massachusetts takes on the president’s “gift-giving” as seen through the eyes of the illustrator:In addition to Trump’s mission, a (first) legislative victory would be the perfect Christmas present for Republican congressmen. While wealthy Americans—like the satisfied man leisurely smoking the cigar in the image—are reveling in these tax cuts, the lower classes are struggling under the President’s weight to support his “gift-giving”. In reality, they will financially suffer from the tax bill, which will result in multiple problems. The most significant aspect of the image is how the scenario takes place in the cold winter setting. The Republican tax bill is the hot issue of this December. Americans will either celebrate the holidays with joy or tremble in fear/anxiety, depending upon the tax bill vote._________Our Student Opinion question, “What Acts of Bravery Have You Witnessed This Year?”, yielded some lovely sentiments.Brooke Myers King of Prussia, Pa., said heroes are everywhere:Anyone can be a hero! As the article points out, people are always doing small acts of heroism and often refuse credit. I have seen so many acts of heroism as simple as letting someone sit next to someone on the bus or help bringing in groceries. These situations might not seem like a big deal but these small acts of kindness can brighten someone’s day. Small acts can stop bigger situations or boost someone’s courage. This reminds me of the story I heard about where a bullied student thought no one cared and cleaned out their locker. On their way they dropped their stuff and someone helped pick up the stuff. It turns out that student was going to commit suicide and that small act stopped them and gave them hope. So yeah anyone can be a hero, even you. Think about this next time you help someone or let someone sit next to you.Kylie Lundy from Wilmington, N.C., quoted a former first lady:I define a hero as someone who can put others before themselves (ie. parents), who can look fear in the eye and overcome it (i.e. women taking a stand against powerful men), and especially those who choose to endure and continue to show optimism when others told them it was unlikely or even impossible (i.e. children facing life-threatening diseases). Ultimately, you aren’t born a hero or just become a hero. It’s your choice. You can turn away in the face of danger or stand resilient with others and possibly stand for others who can’t do it for themselves. They come in all different forms, but they are all heroes in my eyes.“You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face.” - Eleanor RooseveltRoberto from SP called out one specific hero:Teacher Heley de Abreu Silva Batista saved many children when a crazy person set fire in a kindergarten in Brazil killing dozen children, the teacher and himself. She bravely fought against the crazy guy and saved most of the children even burning in 90% of her body.Anandeep from Pennsylvania supplied a definition of heroism:“Courage is not having the strength to go on. It is going on when you don’t have the strength.” (T.R) I don’t think that there is a certain trait that makes someone courageous, it’s something you just naturally chose to do. One of the heroic people out there are those who put their lives on the line to protect others. They all selflessly face danger and protect those who are afraid to do so. A hero is someone who exemplifies this trait of courage and who fits better under that definition than soldiers.Soldiers endure the sacrifice and hardships of their lifestyle to make sure others can live their lives freely without any constraints. This idea of fighting for something greater than themselves makes them one of the most courageous people out there.Juan Gonzalez from New Mexico wrote about his own bravery:I am a hero too. When my family had a house fire i woke up and called the department but they were busy. So i single handedly opened the fire hydrant and the water got on my house and controlled the fire until my the department came._________We asked what you thought this artist’s “Rainbow” said about 2017 and we got a range of insightful interpretations — all of them different.Samman Naz from Massachusetts looked at it this way:2017 makes the saying “it’s gonna get worse before it gets any better” come to life. There have been so many negative events happening in this world, it becomes painfully overwhelming. The dominance of the black in the rainbow depicts the countless accusations of sexual harassment, the gun violence, the terrorist attacks, the natural disasters, the climate change, the threats of nuclear war, and the list goes on. The little bit of color left in the rainbow portrays the little bit of peace and humanity that is left in this world. If that black continues to spread over the rainbow, there will be nothing but darkness just like if more terrible events continue to happen in this world, the following years will be nothing but darkness.This doesn’t mean that there are no positive occurrences out there that are trying to keep this crumbling world together because there are, just not enough. There will never be a time where we will live in a pure and moral world of rainbows and unicorns and sunshine. The darkness will always linger around. That’s why we need to make sure that even though we cannot escape the darkness and negativeness completely, we burden them with the colorful events of peace and humanity next year, the year after, and for however long this world may last.But Emily H from South Carolina saw just the opposite:I believe that the darkness is not overtaking the rainbow, but that the light of the rainbow is slowly pushing back the darkness of all of the negative things that have happened this year.Sure, a lot of bad things have happened in 2017, but this picture depicts hope for the future and the resistance of hope and happiness against oppression and wrongdoing. See, behind the rainbow where multicoloured light is trying to break through the clouds. Soon, the clouds will clear away, and there will be hope widespread once again.Finally, the picture shows that where darkness lurks, there is always a rainbow hiding underneath, where even the most optimistic can see only darkness.Judy HHHS from Michigan wishes for kindness:We had a lot of loss this year, a lot of horrors took place all across the world. These things outshone a lot of the good things that happened this year. There is so much hate in the world these days, no one is able to get along and people search for the negativity in everything and everyone. There is little kindness to spare these days, and it’s a shame that we live in the world we do. It makes me sad to see that we are headed towards a life that is filled with unhappiness and darkness. People need to be kinder and express more love and compassion towards others, so that they can reverse the rainbow and make the world a brighter place.Hunter HHHS from Michigan interpreted the illustration as a symbol for something else entirely:I see the rainbow fighting against the blackness, but I don’t see it winning or losing, it is stuck. I also don’t see this as a representation of 2017 but rather the fight for LGBT+ rights. Each year more countries legalize same-sex marriage, however this year America showed the world that these rights are not always guaranteed for its citizens. As of now transgender people are being kicked out of the military, and not all states have gender neutral bathrooms. Not to mention most of Trump’s staff is anti-LGBT+ and so far he seems to be too. But we haven’t lost and hopefully we won’t either because when you take away the rights of one, you have an open door to take rights away from anyone.Harley HHHS from Hanover Horton, Mich., offered another visual representation for the year:I think that this picture is an accurate depiction of how the year of 2017 has gone so far. Nations are on the brink of war, people are dying for worthless causes and the city of Flint is still living without fresh water. The government is back to helping the 1% of people that they accurately represent and global warming is pushing species to the brink of extinction. There were many horrible things that occurred in 2017, with commercial-like breaks of happiness in between.If I could represent this year with a single picture, It would be a black and red plaid shirt. The black representing the bad and the red representing the good. This is an accurate representation to me because I feel that we had good mixed in. People this year were able to pull the good out of the bad and look on the positive side of the issues we’ve faced._________Readers weighed in with opinions on the appropriateness of “Phones in Church” and other places.Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts believes it is up to each person to decide how and when to use their mobile devices:I think that the choice to use a phone during church should be a personal decision. Each person has different opinions upon spirituality and should be able to express themselves however they would like. If going to church and using their phone there gives someone a calming, spiritual experience that they need, who’s to say that’s wrong? If simply being in church is how a person connects to their religion, and being on their phone doesn’t affect this, I think that they should be able to do so and practice their religion however they see fit. However, if the phone becomes a distraction to others, that’s where the line should be drawn.Cassandra DiNardo from Danvers, Mass., turned to the Hebrew Bible to support her opinion:In my opinion, I think all people must challenge themselves to follow the guidance in Ecclesiastes, one of 24 books of the Tanakh or Hebrew Bible, in that “There is a time for everything, and a season for every activity under the heavens” 3:1-13. The predicament with this piece of wise words is to decipher where phones do and do not belong.Places of worship for example, requires another level of respect of its members towards not only the church but fellow members as well. Imagine, peaceful prayers in a cathedral/temple or anything of the like being interrupted by the shrill cry of a ringtone going off. I do not think that phones contribute to spiritual experience, but should be a personal growth and the development of a good relationship with God (or others) that a person follows.Anandeep from Pennsylvania urged turning off your phone in church:I think church is a place where you should try your best to separate yourself from all distractions and just focus on your dedication to God. Not only could it distract you, but also others around you. It’s hard to focus when others around you are a distraction, so it’s better to put your phone away and check it later. Most people only really go to church once a week, and it’s not much at all to just ask someone to go without their phone for a couple hours a day at the most. If you’re going to church and constantly just going be on your phone, then what’s really the point behind going?Some commenters, like Makena Liney from King of Prussia, Pa., suggested other places where phones just don’t belong:I don’t think phone should be in church because it is a place you should be fully devoted to God, not your phones. It is also very hard for other to be focused on God when others are on their phones.Another place you should not have your phones are concerts. Concerts are getting more and more unnecessary, especially since we have youtube. Pulling out your phones to take a video or to text distracts other and yourself for what is slowly disappearing. Taking a video could also block the view from others behind you.Finally I think you should not have you phones if you are out to dinner with friends or family. Going on your phone during dinner is a sign of disrespect and it shows that you are not interested in what the other person has to say.Amanda Donahue from Massachusetts thought they should not be allowed in school:One place where cell phones don’t belong is in the classroom. Of course I can be guilty of this a lot of the time, but I am only doing damage to myself. Each time you glance down at your phone, you are missing out on education. Maybe not missing out on the big lessons that you will be tested on, but the small things. Maybe a tip on how to study, or a small piece of knowledge not in the curriculum, but those may be the most important to you in the long run.One day you’ll be in college and not know how to study for your final because when you were in the 10th grade you decided to text back your boyfriend rather than listen to the tips your English teacher was giving you. When you are utilizing the privilege of free education, put down the phone and learn.Collin MacRae from Massachusets lamented their use in social situations:Of course there are places like church, work etc. where you are expected to act formally and most people know it is inappropriate to use a phone. However, I feel as though there are many more scenarios where people choose to use a phone when it is inacceptable. For instance, when you are expected to be sociable but rather someone sits glued to their phone such as sitting at the dinner table or going on a long car ride.In my personal opinion, I think that a lot of the time people spend on their phones is wasted time because other than checking messages, the news or maybe the occasional glance at social media, there really is nothing else that is very productive or more important than what you could be doing instead of using your phone.Lauren C from Danvers, Mass., pointed out that using phones in certain places can cause us to miss out on important moments in our lives:There are some places where phones aren’t acceptable whatsoever. Going through my day to day routine, I constantly see people looking down, faces glowing, on their phones completely ignoring the world around them. I see it in class, I see it put in public, and I see it in places like funerals and although I’m not a religious person I’m sure people use them at church or temple, or where ever they go to do their religious activities. I find it incredibly rude because they just tune out those who are trying to speak to them.If you were trying to speak at a funeral or a church service about something or someone that you found to be important and people were just ignoring you while they were on phones, how would that make you feel?_________Several students wrote both commentary and the openings of short stories in response to our “Robots” Picture Prompt.Emma P from Danvers, Mass., described a scary world:People are no longer humans; they are programs. We are being wired to follow only a certain set of rules. Our free will is starting to deplete with every law being created in government. Our purpose is to acquire and spit out currency, the more the government restricts the easier it is for them to make big bucks. We see this programming not only in our governments, but also in our schools. Students -like the government- are only focused on getting one thing, grades. They are being programmed to memorize material and spew it back out into a bubbled scantron. We are only learning how to get by rather than what we retain in the long term.Robots are cold, meaning they have no emotion. Politicians are manipulating the people for their money. Students are cheating on tests for good grades. We are no longer humans anymore. We are only scraps of metal with a purpose of fulfilling what our program tells us to fulfill. Fit in, get by, and whatever you do don’t go haywire. Or else we will have to be shut down for good.Hee Yun Chung from California imagined a scene straight from a science fiction movie:Humanity had been taken over by the machines. The machines didn’t wield weapons that took human lives but wore suits and ties that killed human jobs. Every conceivable job has been taken over by a machine or software. People could no longer work and find any decent jobs that paid a decent wage. McDonald’s began to employ automatic machines that made burgers for people, Wall Street was fully run by Stock trading AI, and manufacturing jobs for humans were nonexistent. The government tried many different solutions to solve the economic and unemployment crisis and eventually came to the solution of the Universal Basic Income. Though it was not perfect, UBI kept the economy together for a time.William put on his white collar shirt and headed out.“Want to meet up at Starbucks at noon during the weekday?” asked a roommate.“Sorry, I have to type some new AI software for the company!” exclaimed William.“It will only be a matter of time.” responded the roommate.William shut the door and waited for the bus to arrive. A blue bus rolled in front of him and the doors slid open. “Ticket please,” said an automatic voice. William turns in a ticket and sat down in a free seat next to a random person that fell asleep. The bus stopped after a few stops and William looked up to see his office building. He entered and sat at his desk.William logged into his computer to see a red notification. William was devastated to see the message: You have been terminated from your position.And Jalen Owen from Pennsylvania made a prediction about the future:I believe that this story depicts the loss of humanity in upcoming generations. As humans, we are obsessed with building complex forms of technology to get more money and recognition. I feel as though the more this happens, the more we lose sight on what really matters.The robots that take place in this business meeting has no feelings and feel no emotions. This symbolizes our world now because the actions we make seem to show no sign for love or humanity. For example, we are so circled on technology and advancement, but we do not really find time for parts of our country that need improvements. While we are looking into the iPhone X, or the Note 8, and future forms of technology and ways to make money, there are homeless families, extreme acts of violence and racism that we should take of._________In response to our question “What Were the Best and Worst Things About 2017 for You?” readers told us about the good, the bad and the ugly of their year.From being accepted to college, obtaining a driver’s license, starting a new school, winning sports competitions, seeing the solar eclipse, listening to good music and getting a job, to having to say goodbye to family members and friends and pets, leaving old schools, mourning mass shootings and witnessing natural disasters, readers learned a lot about others and themselves in 2017.In a year of highs and lows Ashleigh HHHS from Michigan  came into her own:Many people would say that this year has been nothing but disaster. Especially with all of the hurricanes that had hit all at once, the earthquakes in Mexico, and currently the wildfires in California.Some of the good things though, was the music. Music is a big thing to me so of course the many albums and songs that came out was the highlight of the year for me personally. I discovered many different artists such as Bad Suns, COIN, and Walk The Moon. even when Ed Sheeran released a new album, finally. I really have expanded my music taste and 2017 was the year for me to do that.Through this year though, I have lost quite a few family members and my family isn’t all that happy with one another. Even in my own house I feel like people are fighting but in the end, we still find our ways back to each other. We had gotten a puppy almost a year ago and even though he is a big responsibility, he is now family and personally one of my favorite pets I’ve had. This year I’ve grown so much as a person by coming out of my shell and making many new friends. I found out that I was accepted to my favorite college which has many of my friends there as well as a lot of new ones.AryannaHHHS from Hanover, Mich., found some silver linings to a year filled with hardship:In my opinion 2017 hasn’t been the best thing for the US. I mean a lot of stuff happened. From the presidency being corrupted to even the weather we had. For example everyone is suddenly accusing everyone who is famous of harassment or rape in someway or another and I get it is a thing to talk about, but it got to a point for me where I’m just sick of hearing about it and don’t believe any of it anymore. Not to mention the net neutrality thing, which is a completely ridiculous way to gain more money. Another thing is the weather, from the two major hurricanes that hit Texas and Florida, to the wildfires that plagued California because of the major drought they were in.Despite all the bad news though, there were some good times. Like the eclipse that happened in August. While I didn’t get to see anything, it was nice to see videos about the eclipse. This year also created some good movies too like Stars Wars or the my little pony movie, don’t judge me. I also got to make some new friends, who are amazing, at my career center class too. Another good thing that did come out of this year is not having to do so many exams because a lot of the class exams are already done or I’m exempt from.Zach H HHHS from Hanover Horton had a good year personally, and remained hopeful about the future of the United States:2017 was a good year for me. For one, Kendrick Lamar’s new album was absolutely great to listen to for the first time. It was a unique taste after his previous album “To Pimp a Butterfly” went massively successful. Listening to J. Cole’s new album “4 Your Eyez Only” was a whole new perspective for me. Songs such as “Ville Mentality” and “Change” introduced me to a whole new world in his eyes to tell me a story.Despite all of the good that happened in this world, there are some tragic, unforgettable events that happened here we’ll never forget. In recent months, two mass shootings have taken news outlets channels and websites into my eyes. The mass shooting in Las Vegas claimed lives of 58 people and injured more than 300 people. Also, the mass shooting at a church in Texas claimed multiple lifes. Millions of hearts across the United States where shattered, but nothing done. I’m hoping that change can be taken place in order to prevent these and future shootings here in the U.S. not just in 2018, but today. 2017 was a better year for me than the past and hopefully much better in 2018.Good or bad, many of you found that 2017 changed you in small or big ways — like Londyn from HHHS who faced several challenges this year:Starting off my senior year I was out for a month and was in a few hospitals due to have a serve case of mono. Yet I got accepted to a few colleges and have the offer and chance to run track at a higher level. My cousin also gave birth to my youngest cousin in August giving my family the greatest blessing. Also Donald J Trump went it to office. Good? Bad? Bad. My school boy’s cross country team won States and made history for my school. Everything that has happened throughout this year that I have came across has helped me have a different view on life, or change me as a person. Each year I will go through bumps in my life but its what I do to get over those problems which make me into the person I am.Molly P from Massachusetts shared a difficult experience:2017 was the year of hardships that helped me grow into the person I am now. To classify the things that happened to me this year into the worst and best things to happen is hard due to the worst things helping me improve myself.One of the worst things to happen to me this year was for my aunt to move into my house. I know that does not seem bad at all, but just wait. My aunt was a bad alcoholic that had nowhere else to go. My mother, my aunt’s youngest sister, took her under her wing and let her stay at our house. We all thought that my aunt, B, would only stay for a couple weeks. Those couple weeks turned into four months. She flipped my family upside down. All B did was yell at my mother, drink my parents’ alcohol, and put everyone else in an awful mood. I hated her for doing this, especially to my poor mother who was the one to give her a roof over her head. This time period of B’s stay pushed me to grow into a miserable person at first, but then instead of letting it affect me negatively, I took it and let it teach me the lessons of independence and further my positivity. It pushed me to be the light inside my house that started to grow dark. My mother became distant because of the way B made her feel. I grew more independent than I ever had been before. After four, hard months, B went to rehab. My family is back to normal, but I still am left with the lessons her stay had taught me. I believe it made me grow into the better person that I am today._________Thank you for contributing!Advertisement