AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra S. LevineUpdated, 10:23 a.m.Good morning on this bright Monday.After weeks of campaigning, millions spent and a few combative debates, New Yorkers will head to the polls tomorrow for a special election.Up for grabs are nine seats in the Assembly and two in the Senate — and with them, the opportunity for Democrats to control every branch of state government.It’s a record number of contests for a special election, and you can read more about the candidates and the most pertinent issues here.Six of the 11 races are in and around New York City. Of those, Assembly contests will take place:• On the Lower East Side (74th District), where the Democrat Harvey Epstein, a lawyer, will face the Republican candidate Bryan Cooper, an event planner.• In the Bronx (80th District) where the Democrat Nathalia Fernandez, the former chief of staff of the assemblyman vacating the seat, takes on the Republican Gene DeFrancis, a Navy veteran.• In Queens (39th District) where the Democrat Aridia Espinal is the only major party candidate on the ballot.• And in Nassau County (17th District) the Democrat Matthew Malin, who works for the Board of Elections, is being challenged by the Republican John Mikulin, a lawyer.And Senate contests will take place:• In the Bronx (32nd District), where the Democrat Luis Sepulveda, now an assemblyman, takes on Patrick Delices, a Republican and former professor at Hunter College.• And in Westchester (37th District), where the Democratic Assemblywoman Shelley B. Mayer faces Julie Killian, a Republican and a former deputy mayor of Rye.Extra special attention is being paid to these last two races, said Lisa Foderaro, who covers politics and government in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for The Times.[Ms. Foderaro explored the Westchester race in depth here.]For years, Democrats have held a majority in the Assembly and Senate, but their initiatives have been blocked by the Independent Democratic Conference, a group of eight Senate Democrats who voted with Republicans.But after seven years of infighting, the I.D.C. and the Democrats reconciled over cookies and coffee at a Manhattan steakhouse earlier this month.“Now that the breakaway Democrats have agreed to return and it looks like smooth sailing, the one final hiccup would be if one of these two seats — in the Bronx or in Westchester — were to go Republican,” Ms. Foderaro said. “If so, the Democrats’ dream of retaking the Senate would collapse because they simply wouldn’t have the numbers.”The polls are open tomorrow from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m.You can look up your polling place here or call the Board of Elections at 866-VOTE-NYC.Here’s what else is happening:We’re getting early results from the contest above our heads.Today’s victor: a radiant blue sky.Our cloudless day also comes with a high of 66. Rain will reign for a few days, beginning tomorrow.• A look at the long and increasingly public feud between Mayor Bill de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. [New York Times]• The murders of two Binghamton University students in the last two months have rattled the upstate New York school. [New York Times]• Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced a series of initiatives aimed at addressing the high rate of maternal mortality among black women, including the use of doulas. [New York Times]• Though the photographer Maureen Drennan set out to document decaying areas where once-vital factories have been abandoned, she also found communities of warmth and vitality. [New York Times]• This urban farming program is teaching Nycha residents how to cultivate crops and maintain a farm. [Patch]• Volunteer lawyers helped dozens of New Yorkers get one step closer on their path to U.S. citizenship during a free naturalization clinic in Downtown Brooklyn. [News 12]• Vape retailers fear the impact of a new law that limits the number of vape businesses in the city. [AM New York]• Today’s Metropolitan Diary: “Sidewalk Rescue”• For a global look at what’s happening, see Your Morning Briefing.• “The Supreme Court vs. Martin Luther King Jr.,” a talk by the Harvard Law School professor Randall Kennedy, at the New-York Historical Society on the Upper West Side. 6:30 p.m. [$38]• “Excuse my English: Confronting Ideological Narratives at the Museum,” a discussion with Yasmil Raymond, a curator from the Museum of Modern Art, at Cooper Union in the East Village. 6:30 p.m. [Free]• The quartet Hub New Music performs works by Robert Honstein, Victoria Bond and Laura Kaminsky at Symphony Space on the Upper West Side. 7:30 p.m. [$30]• Monday Night Magic at the Players Theater in Greenwich Village. 8 p.m. [$42.50]• Yankees host Twins, 7:05 p.m. (YES).• Alternate-side parking remains in effect until May 10.• For more events, see The New York Times’s Arts & Entertainment guide.Today is English Language Day, Spanish Language Day and World Book and Copyright Day, recognized officially by the United Nations.“It is on this date in 1616 that Cervantes, Shakespeare and Inca Garcilaso de la Vega all died,” according to the United Nations. “It is also the date of birth or death of other prominent authors, such as Maurice Druon, Halldór Laxness, Vladimir Nabokov, Josep Pla and Manuel Mejía Vallejo.”The organization’s goal, in honoring language and literature, is not only to celebrate the achievements of our culture and others, but also to raise awareness of how the written word has shaped our city and world.New York is one of the most linguistically diverse spots on Earth, with an estimated 600 to 800 languages spoken in the city, the most common, after English, being Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Korean and Haitian Creole. (Chinese Language Day was on Friday, and Russian Language Day will be observed in June.)And as the United Nations commemorates the birthdays of Shakespeare and other literary greats, so do we: Our city will celebrate the Bard’s birthday this evening at “The Folio Is Female: Great Women of Shakespeare,” a free show in Bryant Park paying homage to female leads in his plays, and on Friday at a free Shakespearean Sonnet Slam in Central Park.New York Today is a morning roundup that is published weekdays at 6 a.m. If you don’t get it in your inbox already, you can sign up to receive it by email here.For updates throughout the day, like us on Facebook.What would you like to see here to start your day? Post a comment, email us at nytoday@nytimes.com, or reach us via Twitter using #NYToday. Follow the New York Today columnists, Alexandra Levine and Jonathan Wolfe, on Twitter.You can find the latest New York Today at nytoday.com.Advertisement